MATT: Welcome to Critical Role, where a bunch of
us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons &amp; Dragons.
TRAVIS: Dungeons &amp; Dragons!
MATT: Travis is in a good mood. Glad you guys can
join us. Before we jump into tonight's episode,
let's get through some quick announcements. First
and foremost, we have our first sponsor for the
evening: our recurring friends at the wondrous D&amp;D
Beyond. Sam, you said you were prepared in advance
for this one.
SAM: Well, I've been getting a lot of questions
lately about, like, how do you write these ad
things? I make it sound like, "Oh, I just come up
with it on the fly!" It's not true. I spend a lot
of time. In fact, I have a file here of rejected
ads that I didn't deem good enough to use to
promote our friends at D&amp;D Beyond. dndbeyond.com.
Go there, sign up, use their service like we do.
Here's just a few. I'm just going to rifle through
my files. This one's terrible. It was a pirate
one, I was going to wear an eye patch, and go,
"Ahoy and welcome to D&amp;D be-yarrrgh! Grab your
"duffel, set the binnacle and follow the
freebooters to DnD beyond dot carrrrrrm!" But it
didn't make sense.
LAURA: No, that's terrible.
SAM: This one was-- I was going to do a Travis
impression.
TRAVIS: Oh!
SAM: "Yo bros, how about that Cowboys game, right?
When Prescott hit Hurns on that outside post-route?"
TRAVIS: Hurns doesn't play for them yet.
SAM: Fuck. "I nearly spilled my Natty Lite all
over my Emmitt Smith commemorative Snuggie."
TRAVIS: It's a Troy Aikman Snuggie!
SAM: "Man, I love sports. The smell of grass, the
sound of marching bands, the sight of 22 men
"pounding each other for--" All right. Here's an
early draft of the now-famous D&amp;D Beyond jingle. I
went through many drafts of the lyrics before I
landed on the primo ones that we got.
(sings) You got your perfect wizard, his tomes and his
supplies. But he burned his entire family to death
and now he's traumatized.
(laughter)
SAM: I thought that was a little too dark.
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: This one? What was this one? Our tests
indicate that your rash has spread to the groin
ar-- Nope, that's not it. That was a different
file. I had this one, this one's really
conceptual. Here, I'll do it. Matt.
MATT: Yes.
SAM: Matt.
SAM: That's all it says. It just keeps going and
saying Matt. It wouldn't have worked! This is why
it's rejected! Oh, this one. This one is specific
for--
MATT: Very Tim and Eric of you, I respect that.
SAM: We're all excited to meet Laura and Travis's
baby.
LAURA: Oh, okay.
SAM: So I consulted with some computer whizzes. We
did some facial recognition to find out what their
baby might look like.
LAURA: Oh no.
MARISHA: Please tell me this is true.
LAURA: No, what did you do?
SAM: It's got Travis's eyes, Laura's eyebrows, and
why don't you just feast your eyes?
LAURA: Oh jeez.
SAM: On this beauty.
LAURA: That is so terrifying.
TRAVIS: That is some Planet of the Apes.
LAURA: It looks like a ferengi from Star Trek.
SAM: It is definitely your mouth. That's Travis's
beard.
TRAVIS: It's like just the chin strap part. That's
really Abe Lincoln of me.
SAM: Then the other one I had was flowers for you
to say sorry for that last bit.
LAURA: Aww, they're wonderful. They're real!
SAM: That concludes the file, that's all I've got.
The other things in here were just the pictures
that I cut out.
LAURA: Oh jeez, that's all--
SAM: Yep.
LAURA: Oh, I like that one.
SAM: This is the final one. There's more rejected
ones, but I'll read you those another day.
MATT: There we go.
LIAM: BB! I want shaved ice, BB!
SAM: I got my flask for tonight.
LAURA: You asshole.
MARISHA: Anthony Kiedis! That's who that picture
looked like! I had to remember his name. Show it
again! It's Anthony Kiedis! I'm just saying!
MATT: Yeah, I can see it.
LAURA: The flowers are a little more bitter right
now.
TRAVIS: Yeah, it is.
MARISHA: Look look look!
TRAVIS: That's Anthony Kiedis.
SAM: It really is Anthony Kiedis. We'll do a side
by side. We'll put it on Twitter. We'll post it
later. But all of that is to say, D&amp;D Beyond.
Thank you.
MATT: Thank you, Sam. Thank you, D&amp;D Beyond.
TRAVIS: What a look into the future. And what a
bright future at that.
MATT: Our second sponsor for the night actually
comes from inside the family. Those of you who are
familiar with our first campaign got to see him
performing as Garthok for one of our guest
episodes, and he's been on a number of shows here
at Geek &amp; Sundry. He helped write the theme song
for Critical Role. Actually, he wrote the theme
song for our show, amongst many other songs for
the series. Jason Charles Miller has a new album
coming out this week called In the Wasteland.
SAM: That's amazing.
MATT: The art looks really cool, the design there.
It's available now. You can find it wherever else
music is streamed or sold; you can buy an
autographed physical CD copy of it from Jason's
website, which is jasoncharlesmiller.com. If you
like rock, country or metal music, anything in
between, you'll probably like this album. If
you've ever heard his previous work, it's pretty
badass actually. I'm very picky with my music and
his stuff is great so check it out, I hope you
like it. We have a great little video at the break
also to discuss this fantastic album. So thank
you, Jason, and I hope you guys enjoy his new
stuff. Moving on. We made the really exciting
announcement earlier this week. If you haven't
seen: we launched our new online store and we're
working on brand new shows for our YouTube
and Twitch channel.
LAURA: Are none of us wearing the new shirt?
SAM: Oh wow.
MARISHA: Shit.
TRAVIS: (with mouth full of food) I'll put it on
at the break. I've got it right here. I'll put it
on when we get to the break. I'll put it on.
LAURA: Wow.
LIAM: Gobble Gobble.
LAURA: Keep going, Matt.
MATT: We have also put up on Critrole.com shop the
new Mighty Nein shirt. It's already selling out
really fast in a lot of sizes, but we already have
more ordered that are coming in, so we'll update
you guys as soon as those come in.
LAURA: Only small, medium and 4XL are sold out
right now. Everything else is still in there.
MATT: If you are of those sizes that are sold out,
we'll have more soon. We're super excited about
all the things coming up. Critical Role and Talks
Machina will still be here on the Geek &amp; Sundry
Twitch and in Alpha, so do not worry. All the new
stuff will be coming on our own channels and let
you guys know as soon as things come forward.
Super stoked about that. Also, wanted to let you
guys know friends of ours in the community, I know
that some of you guys are familiar with Web DM
they do fantastic work, fantastic streams and
they're doing, on June 24th at 1:00pm Central
Time, this weekend, a fantastic fundraiser D&amp;D
stream. With a wonderful all-female cast: we have
Satine Phoenix, Lysa Chen, Autumn Umphress, Syd
Shields and the DM Emma Lambert will be running
for the benefit of The Girls Empowerment Network
in Texas. Tune in at twitch.tv/webdm or
twitch.tv/criticalrole. We'll be hosting them as
well so you can check it out. It's going to be a
wonderful game with good people involved and a
great charitable event that you can help be a part
of the cause. So look forward to that.
LIAM: Not to be confused with WebMD.
MATT: No. The standard editions of Vox Machina:
Origins, the comic, are still available through
Geek &amp; Sundry and Alpha online shops. Details are
at critrole.com. Talks Machina is every Tuesday
evening at 7:00PM Pacific where our fantastic host
Brian W. Foster talks about the episode that's
happening tonight next week. Watch us next week
and a few of us will be there, present, to discuss
what will transpire. I believe that is it and that
is all for the announcements. Anything else guys
or shall we--?
SAM: Short and sweet.
MATT: Then, without further ado: let's jump in to
tonight's episode of Critical Role.
[click, TV static]
[groovy Critical Role theme]
MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome back. That's
good. Last we left off: The Mighty Nein had
completed their first of two ventures they agreed
to complete in the name of The Gentleman. Heading
northward towards Berleben, traversing the
dangerous Labenda Swamp, freeing the once
endangered safe house from the encroaching merrow
dangers that had destroyed and decimated the
people that were working there at the time and
freeing it up for future use. You had acquired a
bird friend in the tiny Kiri that is along with
you, dagger in hand.
TRAVIS: Six hit points.
MATT: Yeah. That's fine. You'll be fine.
MARISHA: She's going to die.
MATT: You gathered your things and went back to
the open road where you headed to the crossroads,
did some trading. Through the evening, jumped into
a few old friends who were looking to rob you,
sent them on their way. Then continued northward
until eventually you came upon the outskirts of
the-- what was it-- Silberquel Ridge-- there we
go, brain not working-- to the gnomish city of
Hupperdook. Upon arriving in the city, you took in
the industrial sites: the elements of it that are
heavy machinery and the creation of new types of
clockwork-based technologies, the stacks of soot
and steam sent outward, the war machines being
developed for use to the eastern lines where the
conflict with Xhorhas is now brewing. You made a
friend by the name of Rissa who said, in exchange
for a round drinks in the evening, would show you
around the town for a bit. Upon making your way to
the upper level, you were given a brief tour of
the vicinity which seemed strangely empty. The
streets very well decorated for some seeming
celebration, but nobody present. As the sun slowly
went down, the town came to life as all the work
whistles blew, the sounds of merriment began. And
suddenly, as the sun goes vanishing behind the
distant mountains, the golds and oranges and
subtle purples of the sunset begin to take over,
the sound of music and laughter begins to take the
streets. So, Mighty Nein, what would you like to
do?
TRAVIS: Laughter and music? I don't trust laughter
and music.
SAM: Were we on our way to something? Were we
going to some place?
LAURA: The Blushing Tankard? Is that where we were
going?
SAM: Blushing Tankard, is that a place to stay?
LAURA: It was a tavern. Rissa?
MATT: "Right, yeah?"
LAURA: There's a big party happening now!
MATT: "Like I said, welcome to Hupperdook."
LAURA: Wha-- Should we-- Should we party?
MATT: "Well, I mean, what else is there to do for
the night here but that?"
SAM: We don't know. We just got here.
MATT: "There's nothing else to do! You've arrived,
go and get your stuff somewhere and let's have a drink!"
TALIESIN: Let's go get out stuff somewhere.
MATT: "You owe me a round anyway."
TRAVIS: Is this every night or just-- It is.
MATT: "Yeah. It's part of our culture, our gnomish
heritage."
LAURA: Why?
MATT: "Why? Because it keeps us working hard every
day. Sure, maybe our general longevity, for
"gnomes, is a little shorter than most, but what a
life we lead." She reaches out and she's leaning
out the cart as you guys are heading through the
street. These kids run by with sparklers in their
hands and she reaches out and plucks them from
their hand and picks it up it's all (popping)
around and she passes it over.
SAM: Ooh what-- (yelling and blowing)
LAURA: No, it's cool!
SAM: Oh, are you drawing something? It's a dick.
LAURA: (gasping)
SAM: I knew it!
LAURA: I was going to write dick!
SAM: Oh, you didn't even need to.
LAURA: I didn't!
MATT: "I can already see I'm going to like you
folks!"
TRAVIS: Wow. Work hard, play hard.
MATT: "That's the way we do here."
LAURA: I like this town.
TRAVIS: Should we drop our shit off and--
SAM: Where are we dropping? Can we stay at this
place as well or do we--
MATT: "You can."
SAM: Give me that! I want to smell it.
TRAVIS: Quick question. This Blushing Tankard
tavern, the doors lock, right? There's privacy,
it's not like some fucking free-for-all all night,
is it?
MATT: "Well, in the tavern."
TRAVIS: Upstairs, in the rooms, I assume they
have--
MATT: "Oh, you can lock the doors!"
TRAVIS: I'm just asking. I don't know! Could be
free love and a bunch of crazy people roaming
around, I don't know!
MARISHA: It is called the Blushing Tankard.
TRAVIS: Right?
MARISHA: Why is it blushing?
MATT: "Because you put your lips to it."
TRAVIS: Oh, shit.
LAURA: Because why?
SAM: Because you put your lips to it.
LAURA: Oh.
TRAVIS: Yeah. We're in for a fucki-- Okay.
LAURA: Lead the way!
MARISHA: Do I see anyone selling glow sticks?
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: Light up swords.
TRAVIS: Fiber optic whips.
MARISHA: I want a fiber optic whip.
MATT: Candy necklaces, big giant pacifiers.
MARISHA: That's not great. Nine.
MATT: What you see is waves of fast moving
families and people. Gnomish, some dwarves, a few
human-sized folks rushing by. It looks like some
of them are rushing from work to get home to
disrobe from all their dirty clothes and jump back
out with their party attire, or they're already on
their way to wherever their destination is. You
hear fireworks going off in the distance and the
occasional flashes in the sky. But you don't see
any vendors at this juncture. At this point, who's
helming the cart and the horses?
LAURA: Fjord.
TRAVIS: I am.
MATT: Okay. Rissa saddles up, sits right in the
little bench next to you at the front of the cart
and takes part of the reins. "Helping to guide you
to where you're trying to get to go. Follow me.
"Tug to the right and it's got about two blocks
down that way. It's going to be hard to miss. Look
"for the large arch with the various spiraling ivy
vines against it."
TRAVIS: Very nice of you. Can I keep an eye on her
hands just to make sure she's not going through my
pockets while she's up here?
MATT: Yeah, make a perception check.
TRAVIS: 15.
MATT: During this travel, as you're keeping an eye
out, she seems to be just focused on the task at hand.
TRAVIS: I feel a little guilty, but not much.
LAURA: That means that her sleight of hand is
better than your perception. That's all it means.
MATT: That's what it could mean, or she could just
not be trying to steal from you, but it could be
either. You don't know. After pulling around the
side, you come to this large celebration square
where there are three stages set up. There is a
large maypole in the center, and they're currently
lifting up and tethering these large colorful
streamers of multiple colors. People are gathering
baskets of flowers. A few get tossed and you catch
it, and they're made of cloth. You get the sense
here that they don't have access to a lot of fresh
flowers here in Hupperdook based on the rocky
terrain and the perpetual tossing of soot and ash
into the atmosphere. Also, if the celebration is
that often they probably continue to reuse the
same elements over and over again. As you come
over into this corner, there are bands starting to
play, music being set up on the outside, people
are starting to sit down with blankets and
families are starting to gather in this area. To
your left, you see the large ivory archway with
the ivy that's twisting across the top of it.
Rissa reaches and tugs your hands to the left to
gear the cart in that direction and goes, "All
"right, Blushing Tankard right up this way."
There's more laughter and there are two vendors
now on the outside, one of which is currently
selling flower necklaces or bands. The other has
clusters of sparklers and firecrackers.
TRAVIS: There's some of them now. Am I stopping?
MARISHA: Just keep it going, I'm just going to--
and I just roll off.
TALIESIN: I'll follow.
LAURA: Beau, get me some too, Beau! Get me some,
too.
MARISHA: Okay, I go up to the sparklers and
firecrackers.
MATT: You walk up, and there's a young gnomish man
in what would be the equivalent of his late teens,
or early twenties, got a very prominent Adam's
apple, and very thin for some of the gnomes you've
seen around there. He glances up to you, holding a
small barrel filled with various small-scale
explosives. "Hi, can I help you?"
MARISHA: I want three of everything.
MATT: "Three, all right. I'll just get this
together."
MARISHA: How much comes in a pack?
MATT: "Well, do you want three of everything, or do
you want a pack?"
MARISHA: They come in packs?
TRAVIS: We're going to lose a finger before the
night's done.
SAM: Did you just change your shirt, Travis?
TRAVIS: Yeah, bitch.
SAM: How did that happen?
TRAVIS: Hocus pocus, motherfucker.
SAM: Sorry, focus!
MATT: "Packs of ten."
MARISHA: Ten? Ten sparklers or ten poppers?
MATT: "Packs for both of ten."
MARISHA: Yeah, I want one of each. Pack of each.
MATT: "All right, pack of each. That will be five
silver."
MARISHA: Okay, thank you.
TRAVIS: I slow down just a little bit and give her
time.
SAM: I don't think she's coming.
MARISHA: Then I also get a flower necklace for
Jester.
MATT: "Oh that's--" on the other side, the next
person over there, a portly-looking fellow in his
middle ages or so, resting inside of his neck,
rescinded inside. "Hi, yeah, the flowers are going
to run about five copper per string. So do you
want just one?"
MARISHA: I'll, ah--
TRAVIS: Bring him with us!
MATT: He's got a bunch of them tied up in his
hair and hanging off his neck.
MARISHA: Do you also do braids?
MATT: "Braids are across the way over there. Cindy
does the braids."
MARISHA: I'll just take one.
MATT: "All right, that's five copper, thank you."
TRAVIS: Please tell me he has a shortsword and can
fight.
MATT: You're going to keep collecting pathetic
characters to fight with you?
TRAVIS: Yes, please, bring Kiri and that guy I'll
be happy every fight.
MATT: It's the best front line you can hope for.
MARISHA: I catch up, and I give Jester the flower
necklace.
TRAVIS: As she starts to roll up I go: Hyah! And
just take off.
MARISHA: (grunting)
LAURA: Oh, no I'm get-- (grunting) Is that for me?
Beau, its beautiful!
MARISHA: It looked like you. I'm sorry if it
smells weird.
LAURA: Wait, I guess it'd have to be like this.
It's beautiful!
MARISHA: I take out one of the poppers, and I throw
it! On the ground, what happens?
MATT: (bouncing)
MARISHA: Shit! I jump out, and I go pick it up,
it's too valuable. I run back.
MATT: You go back and look at it, and you realize
there is actually a tiny little fuse on it.
MARISHA: Oh, there's a process, okay. I jump back
on. Caleb, light it!
LIAM: No, you throw it.
MARISHA: Okay! Oh, like skeet shooting!
LIAM: Yeah, throw it in the air.
MARISHA: Okay! (whoosh)
LIAM: Fire Bolt.
MATT: Roll for an attack.
SAM: Fire Bolt?
TRAVIS: It incinerates the fiber.
LIAM: Pretty good. That's 19 plus something.
MATT: You don't even have to roll damage. She
tosses it in the air and it arcs, this tiny little
firecracker, this little gray rod and then this
little streak of flame fires up and hits it. It
detonates with this loud pop! sound and you see
sparks around it. It dissipates a moment after and
in the vicinity, about seven or eight nearby
gnomes, two of which children, all go, "(gasp)
"Yeah!" Start clapping and cheering.
MARISHA: You see that? I'm their hero.
LIAM: How did you do it?
TRAVIS: Yeah, different fingers, but sure. I like
it.
MARISHA: This is amazing, these could be useful.
LIAM: For shits and giggles or what do you have
in mind?
MARISHA: For distractions. We could do that again
and like when we're fighting people--
TRAVIS: Diversions.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: Sure, it went very good in the swamp with
that little one.
SAM: Well. Can I have one to examine?
TRAVIS: Say no.
SAM: You have a bunch of them.
MARISHA: How many is in a pack?
MATT: Ten, so you have nine now.
MARISHA: I might have to get more before we leave
this town.
LAURA: I think that's smart.
SAM: Matt, how much do we know about black
powder?
MATT: Well, communally, not much at all. You, make
an intelligence check and have advantage because
of your alchemical history.
SAM: Okay, I'll take the first roll.
Intelligence?
MATT: Yes.
SAM: 18.
MATT: You know it's had minor applications for a
while, but it's only really been applied in very
condensed and common use for, like the explosives
you found in the mine, clearing out spaces in
underground caverns, or for the detonation of
localized rocks that are in the way of paths
trying to be put in mountain ranges. Small scale
black powder like this you haven't encountered,
really, so this seems to be a relatively new use
of this particular compound.
SAM: Up to this point, it's been rare that I or
we've come across anything?
MATT: You've barely come across it at all. You've
read about it. Actually, the dynamite sticks you
found in the mine were probably the first ones you
encountered in your experience. Not a lot of use
for it in the small farming town of Felderwin.
LAURA: Would I have seen fireworks before in
Nicodranas?
MATT: You have before, but they're saved for very
rare occasions, like the coming of a ship that's
been long gone from shore or particular times of
the year for celebrations they would go off and
for that in particular they would put ship barges
out on the water and they would fire them up from
the waterfront. Having it this close is intense
and even that small burst right there, there was a
flash of heat that you haven't really had before
and it's really exciting.
LIAM: Are we just in an ocean of gnomes; is it
like 98% gnomes all around us?
MATT: Most everyone you see here is gnomish.
You've seen a handful of dwarves, that's the next
prominent people that live here and then a
smattering of human and half-elf. Right now, you
guys have just come to the outside of The Blushing
Tankard.
LIAM: I'm traveling with my hood up, minor detail,
as you were.
LAURA: Let's go inside!
TRAVIS: Yeah, we're here. Is there a hitching post
in the front?
MATT: There is.
TRAVIS: Yeah! Hitch up the horses.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: You think it's safe? I don't think it's
safe.
TRAVIS: They seem real jovial-like.
LIAM: When people have libations they get up to
hijinks at night, and that seems like the main activity here.
TRAVIS: You want to go in and secure us some
rooms, and I'll watch the carriage. Figure out if
there's somewhere else we need to keep it?
LIAM: I pull out the silver thread and I start
going around the horses.
TRAVIS: Oh! Or that.
LAURA: Hey Nott, have you ever been dancing
before?
SAM: Have I ever been dancing before? Like to a
place like this?
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: I've danced.
LAURA: Okay, just making sure.
SAM: Why, are we dancing?
LAURA: I figure we're going to dance tonight.
TALIESIN: Probably inevitably.
SAM: All right. I might need some liquor.
MATT: You guys, leaving Caleb and-- you're staying
with Caleb while he sets up the perimeter.
TRAVIS: Yeah, while he does the string.
SAM: Do we need to choreograph something?
LAURA: (gasps) We probably should. We should
probably get Kiri involved.
SAM: That sounds adorable.
LAURA: Come on Kiri.
TALIESIN: Definitely going to need a drink for
this.
TRAVIS: We're going to lose her tonight.
MATT: As you guys enter the Blushing Tankard
Tavern, it is one of the larger taverns you've
been in. The floor space has 20 or so round tables
scattered amongst the floor. There is a stage in
the far back where the music hasn't quite started
yet, but there are musicians setting up. You can
see a violinist who's currently tuning. There is a
piano in the back, and outside a couple of taverns
you saw in Zadash, and your experiences from when
you were on the coast, pianos aren't as common in
tavern spaces. Usually reserved for the upper
class, for private performances or higher-end
social events. However, the tables are filling up
already, people are rushing in there. Food is
passed around left and right. In the back, there's
a group of gnomes that are currently clapping the
ground on their table, singing some sort of tune,
a shanty. One of them is up on the table, clapping
his legs there. One of the barmaids comes by and
slaps him. "Get off the table!"
LAURA: This place is great!
SAM: It's really nice.
MATT: What would you guys like to do?
MARISHA: Try to get some rooms.
TALIESIN: Let's get some rooms and stow our stuff
and get out there.
LAURA: I want to go try to play the piano.
MATT: All right.
SAM: Right away?
LAURA: Yes!
SAM: Do you play the piano?
LAURA: I've played it a little bit at home.
LIAM: I want to listen. I'm going to sit close
by.
MARISHA: Molly and I will go.
LAURA: I have a lot of really good songs that I
learned when I was growing up. I'm going to sit
down and try to play Chopsticks.
MATT: Okay, go ahead and make a performance
check.
LAURA: Oh yeah, it's an eight!
MATT and LAURA: (poorly playing Chopsticks)
MATT: There's a few moments of this going on
before you suddenly hear this (throat clearing).
You turn over your left shoulder and
there is a half-elven gentlemen in a very nice
doublet, who is currently holding a handful of
sheet music. "Um, you're at my piano."
LAURA: (poorly playing Chopsticks)
MATT: He twitches at the off-tune hammering of the
keys. "I'll be right back." He turns around and
wanders off for the moment, clearing his ear with
his pinky. You guys go to get rooms?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: You head to the front, it's a very long bar
that wraps around the right side of the entire
chamber. It has two hatches that can open up. From
the inside, you see two individuals. You see a
male gnome with a massive mane of red hair. Clean
shaven, middle age, and he's smiling and running
around, getting drinks, sliding them down the bar,
filling things. He's the gnomish redhead
equivalent of Tom Cruise. Spinning the bottles and
pouring them out. On the other side you see a
female dwarf, with this awesome, well-kept,
chinstrap beard who has beautiful eye makeup on
and this very colorful, silk, billowing blouse
that tapers at the wrist with a flourish. She's
currently filling out drink and snack orders, and
they're both workhorses. They both have smiles on
their faces, and they're chatting with regulars.
You haven't quite caught their eye yet, they're in
the midst of other business.
LAURA: Did you say she was a dwarf?
MATT: A dwarf, yeah.
MARISHA: Who do we talk to? Do we talk to the
gnome or the dwarf?
TALIESIN: Whichever one we catch the eye of
first.
MARISHA: Yeah, we should do the bar lean in
thing.
TALIESIN: All right, I'm in.
MARISHA: Shove some other people around, do that
thing.
MATT: For the hell of it, both of you guys roll
charisma checks, please.
TALIESIN: Oh, this is going to be funny.
MARISHA: Something we're great at. Just straight
checks?
MATT: Just roll a d20 and add your charisma
modifier.
TRAVIS: That dice just is the biggest tease.
TALIESIN: Want to go at the same time?
MARISHA: It rocks back and forth. Okay.
TALIESIN: Three, two, one. Six.
MARISHA: Eight.
MATT: So the better part of 15 minutes pass of you
guys waiting there and being overlooked until
eventually the dwarf woman stops and goes, "All
right, sorry about that, didn't see you there.
"You're a bit higher than the usual folk. What can
I do for you?"
MARISHA: That seems oddly backwards. We need a
couple of rooms, a few rooms, a handful of rooms.
And some drinks.
MATT: "Both of those can be done, lassie."
MARISHA: How many rooms do we need? Three, four?
TALIESIN: (counting)
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Four.
MATT: "Four rooms, all right. Let's see then.
That's one gold piece per room per night."
TALIESIN: I just put down four gold pieces.
MARISHA: Does it come with amenities? Does it have
a mini bar? Do you charge?
MATT: "This is the mini bar, my dear. But don't
worry. We can bring drinks up, we can bring
"companions up, we can bring what you need up, just
let us know."
TALIESIN: You're in a tourist town; things are
going to cost something.
MARISHA: All right.
LIAM: On the other side of the bar I cast Haste on
Jester while she is playing the piano.
LAURA: I want to start playing The Entertainer.
MATT: All right.
SAM: (playing The Entertainer)
MATT: But really fast.
SAM and LAURA: (speedily playing The Entertainer)
MATT: It's impressive. A little off-key, but
overall impressive, the speed of the composition.
Right as she starts crescendoing, about to get to
the quiet part (speedily playing The Entertainer),
a hand slams down on the keys, and that same
half-elven gentlemen leans in once more and goes,
"If I might please request my instrument returned
to me, my dear."
LAURA: This is a really good piano.
MATT: "Thank you."
LAURA: You should be really proud it's yours.
MATT: "I am."
LAURA: Do you have a tip jar?
MATT: "I have a tipping hat." He pulls off from
the side this wide-brimmed hat that comes to a
point in the front and floppy in the back, and he
sets it up on top of the piano.
LAURA: I really think the first couple tips should
be to me because I really set up the room for you.
MATT: "Well then, I certainly hope the first few
tips come while you're at the bench."
LAURA: Fabulous.
MATT: And he sits down at the bench and pushes you
off of it.
LIAM: I toss one gold in and say: This one's for
the lady. Very good.
LAURA: Did you see?
MATT: "I saw." Cracks his knuckles, sets his music
down in front, starts getting ready. The other
performers to the side are watching this out of
the corner of their eye and laughing. They're
enjoying the tension that's brewing.
LAURA: I run over and give Caleb a kiss on the
cheek. Thank you, Caleb.
MATT: You guys get your rooms situated. As the
keys are being passed out to the different rooms,
drinks are being handled. "So are you looking for
something strong or something strong?"
TALIESIN: Amaze me, baffle me, make me forget
where I am.
MATT: She leans into you and goes "I like you.
You're colorful."
TALIESIN: Bless you. You're colorful yourself. I
love everything you're wearing.
MATT: "Thank you. First one's on me, how about
that?"
TALIESIN: Bless you. I'll happily pay for hers as
well because I want to drink her under the fucking table.
MATT: "Hold that till later on. That event's not
till later tonight."
TALIESIN: What happens later tonight? Other than
more drink.
MATT: "Is this your first time here?"
TALIESIN: Are we that obvious?
MATT: "A bit. Well, we have some performances
going on, and then we have our contest. Our weekly
"Hour of Honor. So just don't drink too much if
you're looking to compete." She pops the top
button off the top of her blouse and gives a
better look at her dwarven cleavage.
LAURA: I love that you did it.
TALIESIN: Brava!
MATT: I realized that I could do it as I was doing
it. As she does that, she reaches down and pulls
out a dark red glass bottle with a large cap,
which she pulls off. This tiny glass, passes it
over to you, and you look at it. You're used to
seeing liquid splash quite often, this sloshes at
a slower pace. It's a thicker liquor.
TALIESIN: I dip a finger.
MATT: It's surprisingly sweet. Strong, the burn
kicks in afterward. You like it.
TALIESIN: Shoot or sip?
MATT: "That's up to you."
MARISHA: Sorry to interrupt your incessant
flirting. Can I please have a damn drink?!
MATT: "Would you like one of the same?"
MARISHA: Yes, one of the same, yes!
MATT: "All right, that'll be five silver pieces."
MARISHA: I thought he paid for me; I thought you
paid for me.
TALIESIN: I am paying for you. I just put a gold
down. Keep the tip as well.
MATT: "Oh my goodness, thank you!" She puts it in
her cleavage. Pours you another shot of it as
well, hands it over.
MARISHA: I just kill the whole thing.
MATT: All right, it burns, but it's good. It's
like a sweet thick honey liquor that coats the
throat, and the coating at first feels nice until
the burn hits.
MARISHA: It's kind of medicinal.
TALIESIN: Challenge accepted. (satisfied grunt)
MATT: It's good.
TRAVIS: Caleb and I have come in at this point and
I turn to Caleb and go: I feel like I may be
regretting my roommate choice tonight. It's just a
hunch. I think he's in his element.
LIAM: Well, the odds are that you are not going to
even see him in your room tonight, so I wouldn't
worry about it so much.
TRAVIS: You think? He'll just like tear into the
night and maybe not come back until the sun comes up?
LIAM: He's like a coyote. You know what that is?
TRAVIS: Yeah, it's like--
LIAM: (funny accent) Diplomatic Immunity.
(laughter)
SAM: (funny accent) I don't know what that means.
TALIESIN: Wow. Okay.
TRAVIS: I do.
LIAM: Yeah, they like to fuck a lot is my point.
TRAVIS: I thought those were rabbits.
MARISHA: I thought so, too.
TRAVIS: We're going to have to work on our
analogies, I feel like there is something missing
here. Yeah, okay, a bunny coyote.
MARISHA: That sounds cute.
TRAVIS: It does sound cute.
LIAM: But if you want a quieter evening, you can
certainly share the room with Nott and I for once.
It's probably not as raucous a room, but you're
welcome to it.
TRAVIS: Yeah, just in case he goes full monty, I
might have like a secret knock or something.
LAURA: Where did Yasha go?
MATT: Yasha is with you, but the player's in
Japan, filming. As you glance around, Yasha's
sitting towards the back, and towering over most
of the clientele here, and not necessarily
uncomfortable, but unsure what to make of the
jovial atmosphere. There is the faint corner of a
smile, but the awkward, anxious smile of not
knowing what to do and afraid to step any
direction and crush somebody.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
TALIESIN: She's turning on the charm.
TRAVIS: Fair enough, I appreciate that.
LAURA: There are four rooms.
MARISHA: I really like it when she crosses her
arms like that, it makes her biceps look good.
LAURA: So Molly can have a room all to his own, if
he really wants to, you know (clicking) (whistle).
TRAVIS: Oh.
TALIESIN: Oh, are we talking about that, I'm not
going to invade your space if you don't need it,
don't worry about it.
TRAVIS: No, I mean half of me's interested, the
other half's terrified, so I'm just kind of curious.
TALIESIN: And if you drink enough, you won't
remember either way.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: At this point, Rissa's like, "Well, if
you've got your rooms taken care of, we're looking
"for a place to sit, then." She glances past and
you can see patrons are starting to get really
rowdy. They have these rope-hung chandeliers in
three different spots, and you can see one person
is jumped up onto one and is hanging back and
forth off of it. Some people are like, "Yeah!" All
of a sudden, the dwarf woman at the bar goes, "Oh,
for the love of--" clambers over with a speed you
didn't expect from her, rushes over and grabs the
ankle and tears him down, off onto the ground.
"Not in my bar!"
MARISHA: You know, I've never seen anyone
actually swing from a chandelier. I just thought
it was a metaphor.
TALIESIN: No, that's entirely something you can
do. It's more common than you'd think.
LAURA: Is it allowed in other bars?
MATT: Are you talking to Rissa? "I imagine if
they're not paying attention."
TALIESIN: There was some pub. I don't remember
what town I was in, but I do remember the pub
because it was actually called the Swinging
Chandelier. I don't remember what town it was,
though. But it was a great pub. It had the best
chandelier.
MATT: "My gnomish eyes spot what looks to be one
open table across the way, right there." Rissa
points, and you can see, past the way, there's one
table that two people are just getting up from and leaving.
SAM: I will dart at full speed, full dash to get
that table.
MATT: You and Rissa go into a full run. You
beating her easily. You get to the table and scoot
into the side. As she approaches, you watch as two
male gnomes intercept her, and block her path. One
of them goes, "Uh-uh, sorry Tinkertop, table's not
for you." She goes, "Fuck off, Fitz! I've worked
"hard enough. I saw this table fair and square."
The other one goes, "You don't work, Tabletop,
"just like your brain-sick dad. This table's for
working folk." Fitz glances over and says, "Go ask
"your pops to make you a table to drink at alone.
Might buy you an hour before it breaks."
TALIESIN: I'm going to walk right into the middle
of this. Gentle persons, are you harassing our
employee right now?
MATT: They both look wildly confused. "No, no."
TALIESIN: We have employed the services of this
person right here, and I would agree that you
should probably leave right now and get another
table for yourselves.
MATT: Make an intimidation check.
TALIESIN: Nope, that's a four.
MATT: As you lean forward in that tense glare, a
little bit of a liquor-based burp comes up
abruptly and breaks the intensity of the moment.
"Oh, someone's starting early, not too bad. No,
"from what I've heard about these folks, their
blood's fire, but on the inside they're nothing
but cold and clammy." He goes and flicks the edge
of your nose, these two little gnomish punks.
TALIESIN: (demonic voice)
LAURA: I use my tail to--
TALIESIN: If you want to go, too, at the same
time. I say a little bit of Infernal, and I'm
going to use a blood maledict and make him go
blind for a second.
LAURA: I was going to smack him on the ass with my
tail at the same time.
MATT: All right, which one?
LAURA: I'll do the other one.
TALIESIN: The one on the left for me.
MATT: The one that just flicked you in the nose,
his eyes go black and you can see the bit of
crimson pooling at the corner of the eyes. He
goes, (stuttering), stumbles back, and hits the
stool, and falls onto his ass. "What's going
on?!"
SAM: I'm going to jump on top of him and start
rifling through his pockets.
TALIESIN: Thank you. I was hoping for it.
MATT: Go ahead and make a sleight of hand check.
TRAVIS: The table, Sam, the table!
SAM: 23. No, 27.
MATT: You manage to pull six silver pieces and
three gold pieces out of his pocket.
SAM: Anything other than money?
MATT: Right now, no. Strangely enough, it's only
money, and only that amount.
LIAM: I'm watching Nott, and as soon as I see that
she has found everything that she is looking for,
I've got the copper wire ready, and I mutter
through it, to the one on the ground: They're
going to kill you. You have to run, now.
MATT: The one that gets slapped in the ass by
Jester is like, (stuttering) "I apologize. Rissa,
"we didn't know," reaches over and goes and grabs
the friend. As soon as Nott jumps on and starts
thrashing around on him, "Get that thing--" goes
and pushes you off of its body, picks up the other
gnome. At this point, his eyes come back, and the
little strings of blood are curling down the side
of his cheek. He goes, "What happened?"
TALIESIN: Some people can't hold their liquor.
It's really embarrassing.
LAURA: It's sad, really.
MATT: They both just get lost into the crowd.
LAURA: No, stay, play with us longer!
MATT: Rissa looks over her shoulder at them leave
and (laughing).
TRAVIS: Wow, that took a turn fast.
TALIESIN: I like the way that worked out.
MATT: "Me too, indeed!"
SAM: Who were they?
MATT: "Fitz and Ashton. They're both a couple of
punks. I've known them since I was a kid."
TRAVIS: They called you "Tabletop."
MATT: "Well, Tinkertop."
TRAVIS: Tinkertop.
TALIESIN: Both equally mysterious.
LAURA: Wait. So your dad is, what, rich or
something?
MATT: "Eh--"
LAURA: It's nothing to be ashamed of. It's okay if
he is.
MATT: She curls into the bench around the table
and leans one shoulder onto it. "My father's an
inventor, a tinkerer of some renown at one time.
He's had a rough few years."
TRAVIS: He said he was brain-sick.
MATT: "That's just him being an arsehole."
LAURA: What kind of stuff does he make?
MATT: "All sorts of things, toys, contraptions,
occasionally whatever he's told to make by the
"Starosta, but he's just a bumbling twat, really."
LAURA: Can we meet him?
MATT: He's probably in nap time right now.
Tomorrow, maybe?
LAURA: Okay!
MARISHA: I bring over a round of drinks for
everybody.
MATT: Another round of just traditional ale drinks
for everybody would probably run you, we'll say
three silver pieces. As you guys gather around for
a second, Rissa livens up a bit after that
conversation. "But anyway, you've asked me a bit
about myself, what about you? What are you here
"for? What brings you to this godforsaken place?"
TRAVIS: We're actually here for a spot of work.
MATT: "Looking for work?"
LAURA: Yes, of course, work, that's what we're
doing.
SAM: Not looking for work, we're just on a job.
TRAVIS: I said for a spot of work.
SAM: Yeah.
LAURA: Oh, yes.
LIAM: Honestly, the name really sells this place.
We have been fascinated with it for quite some time.
MATT: "That's not the first time we've heard
that."
LAURA: I was really hoping you would have houses
of mushrooms. Do you have any?
MATT: "I'm just going to call that unintentional
ignorance, but, no, gnomes don't live in
"mushrooms. Don't be saying that around here very
loudly, not all folks will be taking kindly to that."
LIAM: She's set in her ways.
LAURA: No, I just thought Hupperdook sounded like
a mushroom sort of town.
TRAVIS: Didn't she just say not to--
LAURA: I'm going to stop, though.
SAM: They prefer the term "toadstools."
MARISHA: I somehow feel like that's worse.
MATT: She grabs one of the tankards and starts
drinking heavily from it. "Anyway!" The music
begins to kick in even louder. The celebration has
kicked into a second gear here, once I can find
the music transition.
MARISHA and TRAVIS: (heavy metal guitar melodies)
TALIESIN: Oh, so it's the Noise Room. (heavy bass
thudding)
MATT: The crowd begins to hush for a moment. From
one of the back rooms, a door opens and a range of
brightly-colored gnome dancers come rushing into
the room to a swell of cheers and applause. You
see four dancers emerge, across the spectrum of
gender, and take to tabletops and begin to stomp
and click their feet to the rhythm of the music.
The musicians begin to finally pick up and build.
The pianist you met earlier is starting to make
his music happen. It's beautiful and echoes
through the room, the placement of it. You get the
sense now, whether it be some enchantment or some
intentional acoustic presence in the room, but the
music carries well and seems to bleed from
everywhere. As the dancers are up on the tables,
these silk scarves rainbow-colored, from their
arms, twirl into large circles and shapes, and
they have this worked out, fantastic choreography
in unison. They begin to leap from tabletop to
tabletop in a circular fashion, making these large
arching foot leaps and landing again. Folks cheer
with each land, the music whirring itself into a
frenzy. Folks are starting to toss coins towards
them on the table. They, in the middle of it, will
spin, catch one and pocket it and move back into
the dance. You get the sense this a very practiced
and fairly often performed as to how well-oiled
this machine of a performance is.
LIAM: They are almost as nimble as you.
MARISHA: What?
LAURA: I toss a silver.
MATT: Snatched out of the air.
TALIESIN: I toss two at the same time.
MARISHA: I see if I catch one. Missile Snare. I'm
going to try to catch one of Molly's coins.
TRAVIS: Did you just take a dancer's tip?
MATT: Make a dexterity check. This is going to be
a contested dexterity check between you and a dancer.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm into it. Especially if it
fails, please!
MARISHA: Natural one.
TALIESIN: Yeah!
TRAVIS: That's justice.
MARISHA: It is.
MATT: As you reach for the coin, your fingers
almost touch it before everything goes dark as a
wooden shoe-covered foot (slamming) across your
face from the dancer who catches it between two
fingers, looks down, retracts the foot, and as you
get your vision back and look up, the dancer gives
you a wink and goes back into a spin.
MARISHA: I wink back. You know, I kind of liked
that. It was kind of hot.
MATT: As the dancers begin to gather, leaping from
table to table, they start getting closer to the
center of the room. They begin to spin together
until eventually they clasp hands. Some of the bar
hands grab the tables and start pushing them
together in the center, telling the patrons to
step back a bit. As they do, the circle continues
to get tighter as they leap from table to table,
holding each other wrist to wrist, arm to arm. As
they do, the silks are billowing out and you can
see them extending. The silks they've been holding
seem to have been a bunch hidden within their
sleeves. As they billow out, they widen until
it's like a parachute of rainbow colors that just
spin in this circle. It completely engulfs them;
all you see is the tip of their heads within this
swirl of color until eventually the music comes to
a climax and with a heavy stomp, all the colors
fade, and the dancers bow. Everyone in the room
starts cheering and clapping.
(applause)
TRAVIS: Hot damn!
MATT: The dancers smile and step off, walking
around with hats in the front, taking tips from
people at tables as they adjust the tables back to
their original point. Everyone else goes back to
their meals, and you see them tossing the odd
copper or silver piece into their hats.
SAM: I don't know if we can learn that dance.
LAURA: I think we can do it.
SAM: Let's just work on something simple. We're
going to take a moment to work out a couple of
moves in case it comes up. Just some basic hand
moves.
MATT: Kiri is off to the side. (chirping)
LAURA: We can have her stand on one shoulder
each--
SAM: I'm much shorter than you.
LAURA: I'll be on my knees. Then we can do these
things. Kiri can have a ribbon, and she'll do this
while we do it.
SAM: I like it.
LAURA: It's basically the same as what they just
did.
SAM: Caleb maybe can do some special effects.
LIAM: Will it be dark where we are doing this? I
worry about-- you know what I worry about.
SAM: Maybe I should sit it out.
LIAM: No, it just depends on the situation. This
happens all over the city, outside, everywhere, ja?
MATT: "For the most part, yeah. As the evening
goes on it tends to gather around the places where
"drink is running freely, until everyone passes
out, then wakes up, hair of the dog, usually takes
"himself a bit of Fuse and then gets back to
work."
TRAVIS: A bit of Fuse?
MATT: "A Fuse is the hair of the dog drink that we
brew here to get everyone waking up and back to work."
TRAVIS: I know what Molly'll be having in a couple
hours.
MATT: "I don't know how it's going to mingle well
with non-gnomish tracts, but I'm willing to watch and try."
TALIESIN: I'm very excited to find out.
MATT: "Me too." (laughs)
TRAVIS: Rissa, can I ask you about the-- what's it
called-- honor hour that comes up later?
MATT: "Hour of Honor?"
TRAVIS: Hour of Honor, yeah. What's that about?
MATT: "Look over there." She points to the far
wall, and they're starting to set up lights on it,
these glowing lanterns they have on pikes. It's a
collection of wooden name plates. She goes, "Once
"a week, there's a contest where the previous
holders of the Hour of Honor can take challenges.
"Whoever provides the most monetary amount to the
challenge gets to go one-on-one with their team,
"drink to drink, until only one's left un-puking or
un-passed out."
SAM: A team drinking competition?
MATT: "The remainder gets the coin, I think a
percentage goes to the house and gets to take the
"title and a token. That token is worth a free
drink to each member of that team in this bar
"every night."
LAURA: Every night?
LIAM: It is almost like a drunken CrossFit gym.
I'm sorry. It is almost like a CrossFit gym.
TRAVIS: There you go.
LAURA: We should probably do that. For this, I
would make an exception.
TRAVIS: It could cost a lot of money.
LAURA: How much?
TRAVIS: Well, he said whoever contributes the most
monetarily gets to take a shot at the honor.
LAURA: How much do people usually contribute?
LIAM: I have two gold.
MATT: "From what I've seen, it can depend on if
people are that interested or that competitive.
"Some folks put up the few gold they've earned for
a few days if they're feeling lucky. I've seen
"people put upwards of 20, 25 gold sometimes, which
is quite a sizable sum."
LAURA: Are you a big drinker, Rissa?
MATT: "I can hold my weight, but I'm not much of a
competitor, if that's what you're asking."
TRAVIS: Is it happening relatively soon, or do we
have a few more hours to explore a bit? I just
have the feeling if we were to engage, that all
activities after that would not be documented in
the ol' brain so well.
MATT: You've probably been here for the better
part of an hour or two, just getting your paces,
having drinks and taking in the performances and
the music. "I'd say you probably have another hour
"before it begins."
TALIESIN: Want to do a little runaround?
TRAVIS: I figure, if we're going to do that.
TALIESIN: I think we're going to do that.
TRAVIS: All right.
MARISHA: Let's go. Who's going to put Kiri either
on their shoulders, or we need to--
TRAVIS: To bed!
LAURA: We can't put her to bed!
TRAVIS: Why not?
LAURA: Because she'll just come out of the room.
Won't you, Kiri?
SAM: Why would she come out of the room?
TALIESIN: Because Hupperdook.
LAURA: Because there's so much noise and stuff.
TALIESIN: It's family friendly.
TRAVIS: There's no drop-off daycare. Is there a
daycare here, Rissa?
MATT: (like Jester) "I am Kiri."
TRAVIS: Oh, god.
LAURA: Yes, you are very sweet.
MATT: (like Jester) "Yes, I am very sweet."
LIAM: Perhaps our feathered friend is a little
more important than the horses and I could leave
my threads around her room and she would be safe
there. I would know if there was a problem.
MATT: (like Caleb) "Doesn't matter, though."
LIAM: No, but it does matter, because you are a
young child and you need to get your rest, and we
are going to be doing things that are, quite
frankly, not for your eyes.
MATT: (like Jester) "Okay."
LAURA: She would come out of the room. I know her.
MATT: (like Jester) "I know her."
MARISHA: What if we get her one of those child
leashes?
SAM: Ooh! They said that they would send someone
to the room, right, Molly?
TALIESIN: Did they?
SAM: Didn't you say that they would send someone
to the room?
LIAM: We could get a babysitter.
SAM: Like a babysitter. You could pay one of their
women to watch our little Kiri.
TALIESIN: I have done some ridiculous things in my
life; that might take the top of it, though.
SAM: They're working women; we rent them for a
time.
MATT: Rissa, at this point, goes, "Well,
first off, you're assuming they're all women."
SAM: Oh yeah, that's true! We could get a sturdy,
strapping gigolo man to go up there and
watch out for Kiri!
LAURA: I don't think that's a bad idea.
TRAVIS: Rissa, do you know how much one of these
evening companions might run per hour?
MATT: "I can honestly say I do not. Sorry."
TRAVIS: Should I go ask?
SAM: Yes.
TRAVIS: Yes, all right, fine. I'll be right back.
I'll make my way up to the bar, to the one with the--
TALIESIN: I've got an idea. I've got an idea.
There is one member of our party who is probably
not going to want to go out and see this
ridiculousness.
SAM: She is a wallflower tonight.
MARISHA: She does seem very uncomfortable, yeah.
TRAVIS: I still want to check the price, so I go
up to the bar.
MATT: As you approach the bar, the dwarven woman,
who's in the process of cleaning a spill on the
side, looks over and sees you and does a
triple-take, like-- "Well, would you look at this
"strapping mass of green and tooth." (laughter)
TRAVIS: Thank you kindly, ma'am.
MATT: "What can I do for you?"
TRAVIS: It's a little early in the evening, but I
thought I might get a head start and inquire what
some friendship might run me.
MATT: "Mighty forward, but I can't say I'm not
interested. I've got a few more hours on my shift,
"but if you hang around--"
TRAVIS: I would hate to remove you from your
duties. Plus, my companions are also interested in
the same. You said there might be--
MATT: "Well, it's been a while since I've--"
TRAVIS: Oh! No, yeah, let me clarify. (stammering)
I need--
MATT: She goes and starts pouring herself a
drink.
TRAVIS: Multiples-- not multiples! I need
individual companions for my friends, not just
your beautiful self.
MATT: "How many?"
TRAVIS: Three.
MATT: "Three companions? All right. I have to go
and connect with a friend here and see what's
"available, but that's certainly doable."
TRAVIS: Great, and do you know how much that might
run?
MATT: "Well, that depends on what you're asking
for. Is it only for the hour, is it for the
"evening, what the requests are--"
TRAVIS: Per hour is good, yeah.
MATT: "For an hour? Three? That'd put you about,
say, 20 gold."
TRAVIS: Boy, that sounds like a fun night.
Outstanding. I will be sure to return. I turn my
head and leave.
LAURA: What did she say?
TRAVIS: That was the most horrible thing I've ever
had to do. I'm not prepared to talk to people
about those things.
LAURA: What did she say?
TRAVIS: It's 20 gold for three people for an
hour.
LAURA: That's it?
SAM: Three man-hours?
TRAVIS: Nope. At one hour, three people: 20 gold.
So that's-- yeah.
LIAM: Are you all right?
TRAVIS: God, it's real uncomfortable.
LAURA: Why do we need three people to watch Kiri?
TRAVIS: Look, I was just making shit up on the
fly, all right?
TALIESIN: Yasha, I know you're not into this. I
know that you want to have a night out. Do you
just want to sit and keep the young one out of
trouble?
MATT: "I can do that, yeah. She's small. I can
hold her down."
TALIESIN: It's going to be fine. That's a joke.
LIAM: Are you sure? I was planning to go out, but
it's awkward for me. I thought you would be going.
MATT: "It's awkward for me, too."
LIAM: I thought that we could give each other
moral support, you know what I mean?
MATT: "Good, then you go out and have a good time.
I'll hold the bird down."
TRAVIS: Is that a phrase, or does she actually
mean she'll hold the bird down?
TALIESIN: Only one way to find out.
LIAM: I think the child will be dead by the
morning.
LAURA: Kiri, are you cool with staying with Yasha
for the whole night?
MATT: (like Jester) "I can send a message."
LAURA: Do you promise you won't try to leave her,
and you won't try to come out and find us?
MATT: (like Jester) "Okay. I don't know if it's
smart."
LAURA: I don't think it is either, Kiri!
TRAVIS: Jester, come on. She is just trying to tug
on your heart strings. She'll be fine.
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: Oh, I just love her so much.
TRAVIS: I know. She'll be safe.
LAURA: You be good.
MATT: She holds her little dagger in front of
her.
TALIESIN: I'll bring you back something, Yash.
MARISHA: Blade pointed down, Kiri. Good job.
MATT: (like Jester) "Okay."
MARISHA: There we go.
SAM: Caleb, we may need a third person to join our
dance now.
LAURA: Oh, that's right. Now me and Caleb will do
it. You stand on our shoulders. You wave the ribbon.
LIAM: No, that is not a thing that is happening.
You could ask Beauregard. That's not going to happen.
SAM: You can't dance? You're not a dancer?
LAURA: Have you ever danced, Caleb?
LIAM: Ja.
LAURA: (gasps) You have? I can't picture you
dancing.
TALIESIN: He's never going to dance again.
TRAVIS: (singing) He's never going to dance
again.
MARISHA: There's too many dance puns!
TALIESIN: You can dance if you want to.
MATT: He's not going to leave his friends behind.
LIAM: Yeah, that is the key: if I want to. No,
perhaps Beauregard is fleet of foot. She could
round you out.
SAM: Are you sure?
LAURA: But Caleb, we want to dance with you.
TRAVIS: Fucking Pet Sematary up in this bitch.
LIAM: I played with Mommy, and I played with Judd,
and now I going to play with you. I will take a
rain check on that. No thank you, Jester. It is
tempting, but no.
LAURA: We'll figure it out.
SAM: I guess we can-- Beau?
MARISHA: Yeah? No, I know, I'm your second
choice--
SAM: No, third. It was Kiri first, Caleb second.
You're three.
LAURA: You're very dexterous and I think you'll be
a very good dancer.
MARISHA: Feels like you had to reach for that. You
stammered a little.
LAURA: Plus, you have already lots of scarves on
you, so you can do a lot of the things
the people were doing.
TRAVIS: You got scarves on you?
MARISHA: I do have a lot of scarves.
LIAM: No, that's truthful. It's obvious how
dexterous you are; you're just gruff.
LAURA: Yeah! So should we dance in the street?
SAM: We should rehearse. We don't know when we're
going to need the dance yet.
TALIESIN: We're going outside to see what this
place has to offer before it's time for a drinking
contest that we'll--
TRAVIS: We're going to need a beagle to lead the
charge. I'm assuming that's you?
TALIESIN: (shouting) Onward and outward!
TRAVIS: Jesus. (dog baying)
MATT: As you're making your way out, the dwarven
lass reaches out in your direction, Fjord, to flag you down.
TRAVIS: Oh! Ma'am.
MATT: "So, just asking: how soon are you wanting
this companionship sent to your rooms, and--" and
her finger's playing with the front of your armor
on the edge of the bar, and goes, "I could give
"you a discount."
TRAVIS: (stammering)
LAURA: You know, here's the thing. He's already
been with the Ruby of the Sea, so probably nothing
you do could compare to that. Kind of sad,
really.
MATT: "Would you like me to cancel your request,
then?"
TRAVIS: No, no. I'd like to put a deposit down. I
don't know when we'll be back. Maybe four gold to
hold the reservation?
LIAM: Ask if there's a cancellation fee.
TRAVIS: No, I can't. I'm terrified.
MATT: "All right, I'll hold on to this until then.
Well, hopefully see you around." Gives a hint of
grinning stink-eye in your direction, Jester, and
back to Fjord: "Take care of yourself, lad."
TRAVIS: Yeah, okay.
MARISHA: Did you just put a hooker on layaway?
TRAVIS: I think I did. I feel like I did. Did you
just say I'd been with your mom?!
LAURA: I know. As soon as I said it, it was really
creepy.
TRAVIS: Yeah, that's fucked up!
LAURA: But you know what? It was just a power
play, and it didn't really work out.
MARISHA: I will say, normally being like, "You
slept with my mom" is an insult or something, or
"Don't talk about my mom."
LAURA: Yeah, but people that have slept with my
mom are really rich and really powerful, usually,
so it's a compliment for them.
LIAM: Also, you have to embrace "yes, and," Fjord.
"Yes, and," not "no, but."
SAM: This is good. You have an opportunity for
later, if you choose to use it.
LAURA: Yeah, I could sit in the room and let you
know if they're any good or not!
LIAM: Are you honestly okay? You seem very
perturbed.
TRAVIS: I'm not real comfortable with this sort of
stuff.
SAM: Have you ever been with someone?
TRAVIS: Yeah, totally.
SAM: Are you sure?
TRAVIS: Yep.
SAM: Insight check.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
(laughter)
LAURA: Oh, that's pretty good.
SAM: 20.
TRAVIS: I have.
SAM: Okay. He seems to be telling the truth.
TRAVIS: Maybe not many, though.
LAURA: Have you ever paid for anybody before?
TRAVIS: No.
TALIESIN: Like Captain America, not many?
TRAVIS: Yep. Pretty close.
TALIESIN: Frozen in ice, man. It'll happen.
LIAM: Was it someone special?
TRAVIS: No.
MATT: At this point, Kiri, who's not that far from
you because you're still in the bar, says (like
Jester) "Don't eat humans, okay?" Yasha goes, "I'm
going to take her upstairs," and heads off to the chamber.
TRAVIS: I'm going to let you guys take the lead on
this. I'm more of a spectator, at this point.
SAM: With the hooker?
TRAVIS: No, I thought we were going out for an
hour!
MARISHA: Sorry, you jumped conversations. You have
to specify.
TRAVIS: Thought we were going to warm up into this
thing!
SAM: With the hooker?
TRAVIS: No, we're going out for a bit, right?
LAURA: Why did you give them money, though?
MATT: There's a big, bassy (impact) that you can
feel in your chest. There's a flash of color
outside, and there, out maybe 20 feet, looking up,
Molly. There's a flash of the firework in the sky
going across his horns and form.
TALIESIN: (maniacal laughter)
TRAVIS: Oh, jesus. It begins.
SAM: Okay, let's go make the rounds.
MATT: You walk out in this fair. Most people who
have gathered here, they're sitting there, they're
eating food, and they're watching the fireworks as
they go off. There's a few folks out there, candle
dancers, they have these light candles, and it's
this very slow, meticulous dance. They're moving
in the darkest places of the corner and give this
almost will-o'-wisp-type performance. It's really
enchanting, and borderline creepy at times, when
you can't actually make out the forms of the
dancer in the shadow. People are watching and
keeping an intent look on it. Otherwise, the rest
of this thoroughfare is apparently here, though
you're not sure how much businesses are open,
since most people are in the process of recovering
from a day of business. What do you want to do?
LIAM: Predictably, I would like, as I follow this
group around, to keep one eye open for a bookstore.
SAM: The nerdiest raver.
TRAVIS: Can we get you a card, and hold it up?
Bookstore.
TALIESIN: It needs dnde est la biblioteca?
MATT: What else are you guys going to do?
TALIESIN: I'm looking for vendors. I'm looking for
things that are amusing. Bright lights, colors.
SAM: If there's any more of those sparklers or
poppers around--
MATT: Oh, yeah. There aren't a lot of them,
meaning there's not an endless supply, but you go
back to the same people that are just up the road
to the right from the outside of the tavern. You
can find the same two vendors you spoke with
earlier.
MARISHA: You want to buy them out real fast? Let's
go!
SAM: Steal some?
MARISHA: We can just pay for it.
TALIESIN: You said there were silk flowers?
There's fake flowers? I want to see if I can find
the best looking-- that New Orleans, Halloween
night, crazy beautiful, overproduced--
MATT: Make an investigation check, and you make a
perception check, Caleb.
TALIESIN: (blows a raspberry) Goddamn it! No.
SAM: That is not the Snitch. Just because it's
gold, doesn't mean it's a Snitch.
MATT: Was it a natural one?
TALIESIN: That was a two.
MATT: Oh, so not quite a natural one. You come
upon a number of vendors that have already given
out all their flowers, so you're having a hard
time finding anybody that still have any for sale
in this main central area.
TALIESIN: If anybody sees, I'm looking for silk
flowers. Really, something nice. Something super
fancy, if you see anything.
LAURA: I want to look for flowers too, then!
MATT: We'll come to that in a little bit.
LIAM: I rolled a 19 for Buch.
MATT: Okay, good to keep that in mind as we move
on.
MARISHA: We go pick up some more snappers and
poppers, poppers and snappers.
MATT: You go back to those two vendors. They're
both set up on the side. The one guy with the
sparklers is still set up there, and the guy with
the fireworks is still resting there on the edge,
and the other guy with the flowers is set up on
the side. There's one guy with the sparklers and
the fireworks who's there, the thin, somewhat
dopey-looking, young gnomish guy, and you have the
flower vendor, who's slowly settled into himself,
like a barrel of a gnome.
MARISHA: Nott, the flower guy's creepy. Just felt
like throwing that out there before we approach.
SAM: Okay. All right, thank you.
MARISHA: I go up to the snapper and popper guys.
MATT: "Hey! Welcome back."
MARISHA: Need more packs.
SAM: No. I want something more powerful.
MARISHA: Plus all the packs.
MATT: "I don't really have anything more powerful
than these."
MARISHA: Where do you find more powerful?
SAM: Can you make something?
TRAVIS: We're arms dealing on fucking party
night.
MATT: He's, at this point, locking eyes with you,
Nott, and there's like a look of recognition in his face.
SAM: Gulp.
MATT: "I don't have anything of that variety. I'm
sorry."
MARISHA: Hey, Nott, do you want to-- just stand by
me.
SAM: I swoop back into the shadows and mingle.
TRAVIS: Narc.
MARISHA: Hey, don't-- why are your eyes wandering
at her? What was that?
MATT: "Sorry, we're closing shop up for the
night."
MARISHA: No, give me your packs!
MATT: Then he goes and closes up his little
satchel and walks away.
MARISHA: Oh, you piece of shit.
SAM: Sorry, that was my fault.
MARISHA: Hey, don't ever apologize for who you
are, man.
SAM: No, I--
MARISHA: You can't help that shit, first off.
SAM: I should have known. I can't talk to people.
MARISHA: You can't predict when people are going
to be shitty.
SAM: They're always shitty. It's a 100% accurate
prediction.
MARISHA: That's pretty-- that's a good point.
SAM: By the way, Beau, thank you for the other
day.
MARISHA: When?
SAM: For talking to Caleb through his, you know.
MARISHA: Yeah, he's a good guy.
SAM: Just be sensitive around him. I know that
that's not your strong suit, but he doesn't deal
well with harsh criticism all the time.
MARISHA: And you think you do?
SAM: I'm used to it.
MARISHA: That's true.
SAM: Tell me something, how did you know about
this place?
MARISHA: Hupperdook?
SAM: Yeah, how did you know that the gnomes here
get down with the funky fresh rhythm all night?
MARISHA: The job that I had before I met up with
you guys, in Zadash, information passes through.
You hear things.
SAM: What job?
MARISHA: I worked at a library, the Cobalt Soul
library.
SAM: What's a Cobalt Soul?
MARISHA: It is a faction of monks.
SAM: What kind of a faction of monks?
TRAVIS: Is Nott slurring her words?
SAM: Are you evil? Are you a bad guy?
MARISHA: No, I hope not. I think it differs from
day to day, depending on what I'm doing. Do you
think I'm a bad guy?
SAM: I don't think so.
MARISHA: That's all that matters, right?
SAM: But I don't know, you seem to know a lot
about a lot of things and sketchy things, too.
MARISHA: That has to do with the job that I had
before the job that I had.
SAM: What was that job? I thought you grew up--
didn't your parents make wine or something?
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: What was this about a job? Wait, little
townsgirl, her parents are wine makers, now you're
a brutal assassin martial artist who can kill
anything. What happened in between those two things?
MARISHA: Yeah, there's definitely something
missing, right?
SAM: Yeah, right?
MARISHA: Let's catch up with the others while we
walk and talk.
SAM: Sure.
MARISHA: My dad was super protective and I was an
asshole and rebelled a lot.
SAM: You? No!
MARISHA: Yeah. You know, so when interesting and
different people would pass through my hometown I
started making some connections, started getting
involved in some mainly illegal trading.
SAM: Like what? What kind of stuff?
MARISHA: I got in really big trouble from my
parents because I started syphoning his cases of
wine and selling them underground for half the
cost, without tariffs.
SAM: You were bootlegging your old man's hooch?
MARISHA: Yes, I was.
TRAVIS: Industrious.
SAM: Wow.
MARISHA: Yeah. On top of other things, that was
like my big denouement, you know? I don't know, I
just grew to hate the town that I was in and the
system that my father was a part of
and so everything--
SAM: Is he a bad person?
MARISHA: He wasn't a bad person. I think he just
had bad direction. I don't know, he could've been
a good dad. He was a shitty dad and a good
businessman.
SAM: So you took matters into your own hands?
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: And got in trouble, and were sent off to
boarding school?
MARISHA: Yeah, kind of.
SAM: With monks who are librarians and taught you
how to kill with your fists.
MARISHA: One day, he found out about what I was
doing after I'd already gotten in trouble for, you
know, a little bit of mild extortion, and a little
bit of trading, little bit of trafficking. So I
think he was already pretty irritated with me.
Then he found out about my smuggling scheme with
his wine. One day, he called me down into the
living room and there was a whole group of monks
and people in black. I tried to fight them off and
they grabbed me and they drug me away.
SAM: Wait, this was not by choice? You were
abducted by monks?!
MARISHA: My dad paid to get me abducted by monks,
yeah.
SAM: Oh my gosh.
MARISHA: He wasn't very proud.
SAM: Are you okay?
MARISHA: Sure. Great.
SAM: Was it hard?
MARISHA: Yeah. I mean, there were elements that
were hard, but everyone has had hardships, right?
What's it matter? Besides, he sent me off to the
monks. I think he was hoping that they were going
to beat my indiscretions out of me. Instead, I
think all of the things that my father saw in me
that he hated, the monks saw as a potential
advantage. So, in a weird way, I think it might've
been the nicest thing he ever did for me.
SAM: I've never thought of you as an optimistic
person, but that's a very positive way of looking at it.
MARISHA: I mean, I still never really want to see
him again, and I don't think he wants to see me
again, either. In fact, he told that he didn't
want to see me again. So it's good. Yeah.
MATT: At this point, you guys are caught up with
the rest of the crowd as you guys have meandered
your way and look up and you can see the rest of
your party has been wandering the street.
MARISHA: But, I do have a nice little wineskin
that I keep reserved, of my family's wine,
if you want to taste.
SAM: I would. Very much.
MARISHA: I toss Nott the wine.
SAM: I'll just take a little sip, in case we have
to do the Hour of Power later.
MATT: It's pretty damn good wine.
SAM: Wow. That's amazing.
MARISHA: Anybody else wants a sip of my heritage?
TALIESIN: Is that code for something?
LIAM: It is hard to believe, but I was able to do
the-- I danced the waltz and the tarantella.
It's been many years.
LAURA: Well, you should show me sometime, because
I want to see it.
LIAM: I am very much out of practice, and--
LAURA: We can do it when nobody's watching, okay?
TALIESIN: I could see you as a waltzer. That make
sense.
LIAM: It does. A little bit.
LAURA: I'm really good at the waltz.
LIAM: I believe it.
LAURA: Yeah. They taught me the same time I
learned piano.
LIAM: Is there anything else that you're hiding
from us? Any other quirks or skills?
LAURA: So many. Lots of skills.
LIAM: What are three more?
LAURA: I can paint. I'm really good at baking
scones. Specifically scones.
TRAVIS: With cinnamon, right?
LAURA: With cinnamon.
MARISHA: Scones are hard to make.
LAURA: I know. It's a very tough recipe, but I'm
good at it.
SAM: The trick is to not overmix. You don't want
to overmix. Oh, sorry. We've been walking with
your friend, Beau.
LIAM: Wait. Hold that thought. So that's two
things.
LAURA: Yes.
LIAM: And the third is?
LAURA: The third thing is something that I want to
talk to Fjord about. Because if he's that
inexperienced, then maybe he should take some
lessons or something.
TRAVIS: Oh my god.
SAM: Time is of the essence. He might be with a
lady of the night later tonight. You might have to
teach him quickly.
LAURA: That's true.
LIAM: And was that skill learned or innate?
SAM: Cram school.
LAURA: No. It really was more of a learning sort
of thing.
LIAM: Yeah, study is key.
LAURA: Yes. It's all about studying.
LIAM: That's true.
MATT: At this moment, Caleb, in listening to this
conversation, your eyes focus on a sign post
behind her on a building that reads Bent Binders.
LIAM: I'm done here. I walk towards the store. Is
it open?
MATT: No. The windows are closed.
LIAM: Oh my gosh. I press my nose to the glass and
try to see what I can see. Is there a lot of books
in there? Or just a few books? Or--
MATT: Make a perception check.
LIAM: Okay.
LAURA: I'll go put my nose next to his nose on the
glass. What are we looking for?
LIAM: That's a 16.
MATT: As you look through, the combination of the
two of you, eventually the glass fogs up and you
can't see anything. But from the brief moment you
had, on the inside, it looks like there are a few
shelves that contains some books. It looks like
there is actually a binding press and tools for
bookbinding in there.
LIAM: From what I can tell, does it look like a
technical place where they are just making books
or do they have books for sale?
MATT: It looks like they have books for sale, but
it's too dark for you to see if they are blank or
if they are actual books at the moment.
LIAM: I cannot tell if it's a happy or a sad
bookstore.
MATT: You cannot tell yet, no. Just like
Christmas, you must wait 'til the morning.
(laughter)
LAURA: Are there any silk flowers? I was looking
for those.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
TALIESIN and LAURA: Yay!
SAM: Yeah. Tonight, when it doesn't matter, you
roll great.
LAURA: Shut up. 15.
MATT: Actually, as you guys are fogging up the
window, you pull back and look to the left, and
you can see this adorable little gnome girl with
deep tan skin, her hair pulled in these cute
little puffy buns in the side of her head, and she
has this little basket that is just filled with
these different-colored silk-material flowers.
She's standing there, smiling, and you can see an
older gnome sitting in a rocking chair behind her
with a big old pipe coming out of his mouth as the
hat is half-covering his face and he's just
sitting there, rocking next to her.
LAURA: I hop over next to her. (gasps) I've been
looking everywhere for you.
MATT: "Really?"
LAURA: Mm-hmm.
MATT: "Hi."
LAURA: You have the best flowers I've ever seen
and I would like to buy some.
MATT: "Oh, my goodness. Thank you so much. Okay."
LAURA: How much is a flower?
MATT: "Dad, how much is a flower?" The guy sitting
there rocking goes, "Take them a silver apiece.
"Sorry, copper."
LAURA: A copper apiece.
MATT: "Yeah."
LAURA: I will buy--
MATT: "Copper."
LAURA: I will buy ten flowers from you.
MATT: "You will get ten flowers from me.
Lickety-split." She goes and takes out a handful,
counts them in your hand, "One, two--"
LAURA: How old are you?
MATT: "--three-- I am five."
LAURA: You are five? That's wonderful. Does your
dad take good care of you?
MATT: "Yes. He's a good dad."
LAURA: Are you a good dad?
MATT: "What number is that?"
LAURA: I think that-- I don't know. I wasn't
counting.
LIAM: 13. That was 13.
LAURA: 13. I'll buy 13. I give her two silvers.
You know, I happen to have a little girl with me
who is very cool and I think she would like to
play with you.
MATT: "What?"
LAURA: Mm-hmm. She's extra special, though, so
you'd have to be very nice to her.
MATT: "Oh, I'm very special, too."
LAURA: (gasps) Really?
MATT: "Yeah!"
LAURA: Where do you live? Because I could bring
her over and you could play together tomorrow.
MATT: "The house is two buildings down that way
and back one street. You could see it has the red
"brick on the base, by the door."
LAURA: Red brick on the base by door. I'll come
see you guys tomorrow.
MATT: "Okay. What's your name?"
LAURA: My name is Jester. What's your name?
MATT: "Tara."
LAURA: Tara, so nice to meet you.
MATT: "Nice to meet you, too."
LAURA: Red brick by the door.
MATT: There's this pause, and she goes, "Okay.
Bye."
LAURA: Okay. See you!
MATT: Then runs back and goes, "Dad, dad, dad,"
and starts taking the copper and puts it in his
hand and he's, like, "Oh, that's a fine job." He
pulls his hat up a bit and takes the coin. He
looks over to you as you walk away and--
LAURA: Does he seem like a nice dad?
MATT: Make an insight check.
TALIESIN: No.
LAURA: Ooh, that's good. 22
MATT: Seems like a nice enough dad. Yeah.
MARISHA: Happy Father's Day.
MATT: Anything else you guys wish to do? It's
starting to get relatively close to that hour window.
LAURA: Do you want many of them? Because I just
bought a bunch.
TALIESIN: I'll take two, then. Yep.
LAURA: Flowers?
SAM: Yes, please.
LAURA: Flower?
LIAM: One, please.
TRAVIS: Are there any authorities walking the
street? Any crownsguard or kingsguard or--?
MATT: There are crownsguard. It's interesting,
because there are half and half. For the large
gnomish population here, you see half of the
crownsguard are gnomish, and many of them have
some form of firearm slung over their back and
shoulders. The other half appear to be human or
half-elf. The human/half-elf crownsguard appear to
be less jovial and really paying attention to the
chaos and generally trying to keep an eye out for
anything untoward.
TRAVIS: Just like sentry, though. They're not
concerned or turgid or stiff?
MATT: In comparison to the rest of the people that
are currently celebrating, yes. But even the
gnomish crownsguard seem to be taking their job
seriously, but they're still part of the event.
TRAVIS: Among their folks?
MATT: You get the sense here that everyone else
gets to celebrate and party at this hour and they
don't get to, so they cheat a little bit.
Honestly, there's more crownsguard at night than
you expected. When you came into the city, it
didn't seem that heavily guarded, but now they're
out in a pretty serious force. You gather probably
a combination of there being wartime, or because
the nature of what this city builds. As you're
glancing out, on the outside of the ledge of this
upper area, looking down, there are a number of
torches out by where the construction yards are
down below. Either people are working through the
night down there, or there's a fairly heavy
presence of crownsguard present around these
partially-constructed devices and machines of war
that you saw being worked on earlier in the day.
TRAVIS: Looks like they even go through the night.
That's some dedication.
TALIESIN: That seems like a bit much, doesn't it?
TRAVIS: Yeah. Work ethic can choke you in that
way. Well, it's about that time. Should we make
our way back for whatever this is going to be?
TALIESIN: I got what I needed. I'm ready.
LIAM: Just a second. Nott, come here for a
moment.
SAM: Yes, Caleb, what is it?
LIAM: Are you going to dance?
SAM: Well, I think we're going to drink first.
LIAM: Yeah. But later, it seems like you want to.
I think you should.
SAM: I do like to dance.
LIAM: Well, you should try it. You should enjoy
yourself, but make sure that either Jester or I
ties your mask on very tightly, yeah?
SAM: Should I do the spell that you told me, the
disguising spell, before the dance?
LIAM: I mean, it would not be a bad idea.
SAM: All right. I'll do that.
LIAM: All the same. Maybe stay away from direct
light, you know? If you can stay a little bit away from it.
SAM: Oh, because the shadows won't match.
LIAM: Ja, and some people are smart and it won't
work.
SAM: Okay. I will. But you'll keep an eye out in
case anyone--
LIAM: That is exactly what I will do.
SAM: All right. Thank you.
LIAM: You should enjoy yourself.
SAM: I'll try. If you want to join us, you could
just point and clap, off to the side. You don't
have to dance. You can be there to, like--
MARISHA: You guys know that dancing is about
spontaneity and you are planning this dance, like
when this is going to happen, so hard.
LIAM: I am not dancing, so it is not really an
issue.
MARISHA: Let your heart go.
LAURA: When you're performing, you have to have
specific moves.
MARISHA: Sure.
SAM: You saw the guys who kicked you in the face.
They had planned-out moves that were really cool.
LAURA: Yeah. Like choreography. That's what we're
talking about here.
TALIESIN: They kick someone in the face every
time.
MARISHA: I like dancing to dance.
SAM: All right. We'll do choreography to the right
and left, and you two be in the middle and just freestyle.
LAURA: I think that will work out well. Make sure
you use your scarves, though.
MARISHA: Do you guys still have one of those
wands?
SAM: What wands? The Wand of Smiles?
LAURA: I have that. I hit a random person with the
Wand of Smiles as we walk by them.
MATT: The gentleman who's selling the flower bands
is sitting, already smiling, and goes--
LAURA: That guy knows.
MARISHA: Here. I take off my belt ribbon and I tie
it around your Wand of Smiles. Now you have a
ribbon dancer of smiles.
LAURA: Ah!
TRAVIS: How many charges does that thing have?
LAURA: I don't remember.
SAM: That's probably it for the day.
MARISHA: It recharges, right? Over time?
MATT: Yeah, it has a few uses on it per day. You
guys return to the Blushing Tankard Tavern. The
music's still blaring. Drinks are being thrown
around. A bunch of people are singing big, old
songs and clanking their tankards together and
spilling onto the tabletops. The floor is already
slick with spilled liquor here and there. It is a
party that hasn't stopped since you left. As you
guys begin to enter, the dwarven woman who you had
spoken with earlier gets onto one of the central
tables and slams her foot on the table. Everyone
starts looking over and she goes, "Attention,
"arseholes! Might I have your leering eyes upon
this supple and available specimen of a woman?"
You hear some whistles. "Oh, thank you." She bends
forward with a wink to the crowd. "It's as you've
"all been waiting for: The Hour of Honor!" "Yeah!"
Cheers, clapping. "The tokens and titles are at
"stake. Ol' Blemmy and his crew hold this winner's
tokens for the last three weeks," and she gestures
over and you can see a team there, mostly of
gnomes. Ol' Blemmy is this dwarf with one giant
gash down his face, and the snow-blind eye in that
socket is sitting there with this tuft of a beard
that has been so unkempt that you can't see his
mouth. It's this gray-black, salt-and-pepper bush
that disappears into a chin beard. You assume he's
grinning beneath there.
TALIESIN: Like Bread Papa?
MATT: Kind of, yeah. Beard Papa?
TALIESIN: Yeah, it's all Beard Papa.
MATT: "They're not willing to let them go! Who
wants to put up their coin and their balls to
"topple these nobodies?" (chuckling) Folks start
standing up and tossing some coin on the table at
her feet and shouting out, "Five silver!" "A gold
piece!" "Three gold over here!" People are
standing up and their groups are starting to get
amped up and ready. She's like, "Keep them coming,
"keep them coming!"
TALIESIN: Ten gold?
TRAVIS: Sure.
TALIESIN: Ten gold.
MATT: "Whoa. By the colorful newcomers-- hi there,
sweetie!"
TRAVIS: Oh god.
MATT: "Do we have more than ten gold here to try
and take down these giants of drinking?" There's a
moment, and this one group in the corner, these
coal-smeared gnomes that come from-- you can
assume now this is probably a heavy mining town.
They're sitting there with elements of their
leather work clothes still on, and they're all
thinking and talking amongst themselves, and they
all pull in a few more coins, and one of them
comes forward, still wearing leather gloves from
the day and pops down, "15 gold."
TRAVIS: Hmm, shit.
MARISHA: 16!
MATT: "18."
LAURA: 20 gold!
MATT: He goes back, talking to them. Comes back,
"25 gold pieces."
LAURA: Oh, come on! I don't even know if I want to
do that for 20 gold.
TALIESIN: I just don't know how to walk away from
something like this.
MARISHA: 25 and five silver!
SAM: So petty.
TALIESIN: Oh for god's sake, 30 gold.
TRAVIS: Price is right.
MATT: At that point, everyone goes, "Whoa!" With a
flourish, you place the rest of the 30 gold piece
pot on the table. "Ooh."
TALIESIN: So you'll all be giving me a little bit
of gold for this later.
MATT: "So?" Turns back and looks back at the
miners, and they all go (heavy sigh).
TALIESIN: We'll be out of town in a week.
MATT: They gather their gold off the table back
again, and Irena goes, "Well, if that's it, it
"looks like our contenders for the night are--
(quietly) what are you called?"
TALIESIN: The Mighty Nein.
MATT: "The Mighty Nein!"
TALIESIN: If I want to be known for something,
this is exactly what I want to be known for.
MATT: Cheers and clamoring continue around, and
everyone starts shouting and yelling.
"All right, let's set up these drinks people!"
With that final slam on the table, she leaps off
onto the ground and starts heading off towards the
bar on the side. The other bartender-- the gnomish
gentleman there is rapidly clearing out tankards
and drinks, and he's starting to pull up bottles
onto the countertop. They start pushing tables
into the center again once more as the crowds
begin to circle around, and Ol' Blemmy and the
rest of his rather rough-looking crew that have
seen some life in their time--
TRAVIS: Fraternity all-stars.
MATT: They're all pretty much gnomish middle-age,
which could be anywhere between 100 to 200 years
old, and you can see the weathering on their faces
and their clothing. They look like they nearly
drink professionally. They step up to the table
and they figure out what order they're going to go
in. You guys figure out what order you're going to
go in?
SAM: Are we all going?
TRAVIS: Anybody who wants in.
MATT: There's five on their team, and talking to
her a bit, she goes, "All right,
there's five competitors. You need to pick five of
your team to compete."
SAM: Who's the worst at drinking?
LAURA: Well, I've never been drunk.
SAM: Then maybe you should sit this one out.
LAURA: But maybe I'm really good at it, you don't
know!
SAM: Do we want this to be the thing that we find
out on?
TRAVIS: Probably not, Jester.
TALIESIN: Caleb, how're you feeling?
LIAM: I don't think I should go late in the game,
but I feel capable of this challenge.
TALIESIN: Excellent.
TRAVIS: I can drink.
MARISHA: I'm pretty good at it, too.
TALIESIN: I'm ready for this.
SAM: I've never had a drink in my life.
TRAVIS: Our fucking team captain over here!
MATT: Who's sitting it out amongst you guys?
LAURA: I guess it will be me.
TRAVIS: Well, we need five.
MATT: You need five, yeah.
LIAM: We have eins, zwei, drei, vier, und fnf.
SAM: Maybe you can be--
LAURA: I'm taking my five gold back from him, and
I'm stomping upstairs.
SAM: You could be the manager of the team!
TALIESIN: You can also drink along since we'll
have to buy your drinks for you.
MARISHA: I can also give you some magic mushrooms
if you want to slip them in their drinks.
TRAVIS: It's fungus, actually.
LAURA: Oh, but I can work distraction.
SAM: Yes. You can use your clerical mysticism to
confuse and disrupt our enemy.
LAURA: I stomp back down the stairs, and I join
them.
MATT: As you're coming down, you notice, Jester,
the crowds are all gathering, and there's this big
circle appearing around the central-- they have
two tables that are set up with a single bench
each end. You can see a third table behind it
where there's probably going to be the dwarf woman
overseeing this venture. You do see this little
gnome girl that's walking through the crowd, and
her hands open, and people are--
LAURA: Is it Tara?
MATT: It's not Tara, actually, but it's a rather
dirty-looking gnome little girl who's thumbing
through and getting pushed around a little bit,
her hands are out in front.
LAURA: I give her a little money. I give her a
silver.
MATT: She takes it and, "Thank you," barely
audible voice, and continues wandering in the
crowd. So, the five of you guys are doing it?
SAM, TALIESIN, TRAVIS, MARISHA, and LIAM: Yes!
MATT: At this point, the dwarf woman comes back to
the top of the tables there, looks out, "All
"right, friends! I am but your humble evening
mistress, Irena Clommop. And it is my pleasure to
"present to you tonight's esteemed head-to-head
drinking battle between Ol' Blemmy and crew, and
"The Mighty Nein. First up of Blemmy's crew, we
have Duncan!" You see this one gnome gentleman
come forward. Patchy beard, more of a Stonewall
Jackson type, missing the centerpiece there. His
eyes are bloodshot and red. His hair's slicked
back with some sort of a thick oil, and he's
wearing a leather apron over a white, stained
shirt with the sleeves rolled up past his elbows.
He sits up, gets on one end of the table, puts one
hand on his tankard, and is waiting for his
competitor. "And on The Mighty Nein's side, who's
competing against old Duncan?"
TRAVIS: Listen, the anchor needs to be you, Nott.
You're our ringer.
SAM: All right. So I'll wait until there's--
TRAVIS: Molly, do you want to kick us off?
TALIESIN: I'll take this in. I'm going to Riker
right over the chair and sit down.
MATT: "What's your name?"
TALIESIN: Molly, dear.
MATT: "Molly! All right. So we'll take turns." She
grabs this small barrel-- it's a handheld barrel--
she pours both of your drinks to the brim. "When I
clap hands together, you both drink! It's not
"first to finish, but it's one drink after the
next. First to pass out or lose their drink
"forfeits. So with your drinks full, let's begin!"
With that, I need you to roll a constitution
check. Roll a d20, add your constitution
modifier.
TRAVIS: Warm it up.
TALIESIN: Ten.
MATT: You watch as Duncan, takes it (gulping).
LAURA: No wait, add your constitution. 12!
TALIESIN: Oh, 12, sorry.
MATT: You're drinking it and getting through it
fine. You're partway through your drink and he's
already finished (slam) on the table. It was a
natural 20 on his end.
ALL: Oh!
MATT: You finish the drink, and you're like
(burp), a little effervescent, but it's there. So
that's one loss on your end. How the rules work is
that the first to three losses is the one-- in
these competitive spaces.
MARISHA: So you have to drink fast? I thought you
just said it didn't matter how fast--
MATT: No, that was just how fast he finished. The
idea is you both make competitive constitution
checks and the first to three losses in that
competition is the one that either barfs or passes out.
LIAM: Barf saves.
MARISHA: Copy.
MATT: Yeah, essentially. At that point, as soon as
you guys drop the drinks, "Next round!"
Fills up both of them, the crowd starts cheering.
Go ahead and roll.
MARISHA: Come on, Molly.
TALIESIN: Ugh, goddamn it. Eight.
MATT: He rolled a two plus two, so, four.
TRAVIS: Yeah!
MATT: This time around, you manage to finish a
little sooner than him. You put it down; he's like
(burp, then chuckling). Roll again. Fills up for
the third round.
TALIESIN: 20.
MATT: You finish your drink a little bit sooner
than him, plop it down. (burping, grunting) From
behind him you hear Ol' Blemmy go, "Don't you lose
it, boy!" A voice that grates like it's been
slammed across a hundred years of seawater.
TRAVIS: Molly, how is it?
TALIESIN: It's rough.
MATT: Roll off again.
TALIESIN: 19.
MARISHA: Yes!
MATT: You finish your drink. He takes his next
one, pops it down, and you both stare for a
moment. (coughing and spitting) Down the front of
his shirt, the crowd's goes like, "No!" Tries to
scoop it back up, and they're like, "No, and
you're out!" Irena kicks him out of the chair,
"And he's done! First round goes to The Mighty
Nein!"
TRAVIS: Oh, shit!
MATT: He gets off the ground, dazed. You are
fucking drunk, Molly.
TALIESIN: I'm very drunk.
MATT: He topples back to you guys, you see Duncan
get pulled back in the crowd, and Ol' Blemmy's
like (inaudible muttering) and under his breath,
you can hear a string of curse words.
"Next up, we have Ruth!" You watch as this rotund,
tough-looking, oval of a gnomish woman comes up
there, her hair pulled into really tight braids in
the side, with bright freckles and this grimace.
This woman has seen some shit and lived. She gets
up to the side, takes the same tankard, and goes,
"I'll show you how it's done, Duncan. Fill it!"
TRAVIS: She's got nothing on you. She's nothing!
You got this!
MARISHA: My resting bitch face is stronger! And I
jump in.
LAURA: I hop up on the table next to her and start
yelling: Beau! Beau!
ALL: Beau! Beau!
MATT: Make a persuasion check.
LAURA: I use Thaumaturgy to make it sound like
other people are chanting with me.
MARISHA: Yes, girl, yes!
TALIESIN: That's a roll.
LAURA: That's a 21!
MATT: With that, the crowd starts picking up on
Beau, and the name, "Beau! Beau! Beau!" begins to
resonate through the crowd. You lock eyes with
this gnomish woman and you can see there should be
color, but the irises are gray-- slate gray-- and
it puts you off. There's this intensity to her
that you're like, "Oh. This is--"
MARISHA: Fjord, she has crazy eye.
MATT: Go ahead and roll.
MARISHA: Do I have advantage because people are
chanting my name?
MATT: No. But people are definitely invested in
this victory. Go ahead and make your first roll.
MARISHA: Don't fuck me, Gil. 16.
MATT: You both chug, slam it down at the same
exact time. Both hold tight. It was a tie.
TRAVIS: Oh no, you're getting shithoused during
this round!
MARISHA: Yeah, I am!
MATT: They fill up the drinks. "And next round,
go!" Roll for it.
MARISHA: Blue die. Okay! 21.
MATT: You both (gulping)-- you finish just before,
slam the drinks down. (heavy exhaling)
MARISHA: I'm not as tough as Beau.
MATT: That's one victory on your end there. Roll
again.
LIAM: Snap.
MARISHA: Fuck. Seven.
MATT: This time, she doesn't even break eye
contact with you. She tilts to the side (fast
gulping), finishes it in seconds and slams it down
(heavy slam, belch) and burps in your direction
while you're still drinking, and it catches you.
That's a loss on your end.
TRAVIS: Burns your eyes a little bit.
MATT: Yeah. Next one.
TRAVIS: You got this.
MARISHA: Don't fuck me, Gil. I'm going to let it
go, I'm going to let it live, 19. No, 20! No, 17,
18, 19! I know math.
MATT: Nice rolls! These are not saving throws,
right? This is the actual check.
MARISHA: Plus three.
MATT: Got it. On that, as you both fill this next
set of tankards, you drink, and you finish just
before she does. Both slam down, and she's
starting to have to tough into it. You can see her
grinding her fingers into the woodwork. This is a
lot of drinking.
MARISHA: I wipe the sweat off with my robe.
MATT: That's two victories to you, one victory to
her. Fill up the next batch, the crowd's still
shouting, "Beau! Beau! Beau!" Next roll.
MARISHA: Nine.
MATT: This time she toughs it in, she grabs with
both hands and chugs it down. The foam catches the
corner of her mouth and she finishes it and she
wipes it off and sips it off her finger.
TRAVIS: Brutal.
MATT: That's a victory on her end. You guys are
both tied, the next roll's going to see who takes it.
TRAVIS: Win or go home, Beau. Eye on the Cobalt
Soul, here we go!
MATT: "Beau! Beau! Beau!" Her left eye's twitching
as she's glaring at you.
MARISHA: All right, Gil. Comes down to you, boy.
LIAM: Come on, Beauregard.
MARISHA: Did she already roll?
MATT: She did.
MARISHA: (frustrated noise) Six. No, five.
MATT: With that, you both chug, maintaining eye
contact. You get partway into it, and then
(coughing and retching) and you begin backing up
into the tankard. You try and pass it off, and
then as you drop the tankard to gather yourself,
(spitting) it sprays onto the table.
MARISHA: Sorry!
MATT: "Oh!" The whole crowd worked up for Beau's
victory falls into a series of sad awws. Ruth
finishes her drink, sets it on the table and
(teeth sucking) turns around and goes back.
TRAVIS: I'm sure we've got bread around here
somewhere, just find something to soak all of that up.
MARISHA: Ugh. Okay.
MATT: "Next up, we have Valkin!" You see now, this
very young-- looks like the runt of his family
line of gnomes-- comes forward. Looks very thin,
bright-eyed, and very stark contrast to the rest
of them, as he gets closer to the table and
sits down. "Who's my competitor?"
LIAM: Ja hello, my name is Caleb.
(laughter)
MATT: Puts out a hand, "Caleb, it's a pleasure."
LIAM: It's a pleasure.
MATT: "Best of luck. May the best gnome win."
LIAM: Let's enjoy a good game. Did you just say,
"May the best gnome win?"
MATT: "Yes."
SAM: He's trash talking! Don't listen to him!
TRAVIS: Keep him out of your head!
LIAM: I am a very skinny man. Let's do this.
MARISHA: High metabolism. Use it!
LIAM: Do not let me fall asleep face down in the
gutter tonight.
LAURA: Won't happen.
TALIESIN: That was an option?
TRAVIS: For you.
MATT: As you guys gather, the crowd begins to pull
in a bit. The evening mistress leans down at you
and goes, "Don't worry lad. I can see you're
nervous, but just let the throat open and take it
"in." Leans back, "And first batch, go!" Roll off.
LIAM: Grog die! Yes! 21!
MATT: Oh shit! Unexpectedly so, little Caleb finds
his taste for alcohol in this one, and with but a
moment's notice, downs the entirety of his glass,
finishing it before Valkin does. Who says, "Oh,
"well done. That's impressive."
LIAM: Yes, it's a good game. It's just a game.
MATT: Fills both of them again. Next round, go for
it.
TRAVIS: So polite.
LIAM: (singing) Laurentia, liebe Laurentia mein.
Wann woll-
MATT: Your confidence overtakes you as you go into
the second round of cups, and you manage to
finish, but you have to stop halfway through. You
have to actually go (heavy breathing) for the
second serving. You take it down and finish it;
however, as you pull your glass down, you can see
Valkin's there, leaning.
LIAM: Enjoying the fumes. As they waft up again.
MATT: "I can tell that. Well done, well done."
SAM: Maybe we should do our dance to distract his
competitor now.
LAURA: That's a good idea.
MATT: Their drinks are filled. Go for it.
LAURA: Directly in front of Valkin, we start--
(laughter)
MATT: Both of you guys make individual performance
checks.
LAURA: 19!
SAM: It was 15, but 12.
MATT: He does not seem to be distracted,
unfortunately. What did you roll?
LIAM: 13 for me.
MATT: As you take a moment and (grunting and
huffing)--
LIAM: Nighty Mein never says die!
MATT: You manage to finish the last bits of it,
and it takes a moment. You can feel all the suds
of the mixtures of drinks you've had tonight
billowing in your stomach and churning. You hear
the (gurgling) in your stomach. You're like, oh
that's not good. That's a second loss on your end.
SAM: Oh no! No, Caleb, no!
LIAM: I feel like it might go out the back exit
instead of the front.
MATT: They fill it up. Next roll.
LIAM: Aw! 14!
MATT: 14? With this, you see Valkin-- he rolled a
nine, plus three, so you win this one. He goes and
takes it, finishes it. You both, within a second
of each other, finish the drink and, "I got this.
"You got this? I got this."
TRAVIS: Caleb, steady.
LIAM: I swat him on the side of the face.
MATT: "No, don't! Don't touch."
LIAM: I do it again. It's good!
MATT: "Ah no! Don't do it please!"
LIAM: It's good for you! Drink!
MATT: Fill up the last batch. You guys both, final
roll.
LIAM: Natural 20.
(cheering)
MATT: Natural 13 on his end. With that, he
finishes the drink and goes, "Told you! Boo yah!"
Gets up from the table, turns around, and (thud)
faceplants right in the ground. Crowd goes, "Yeah!
"Caleb!" Pick him up.
LIAM: I nod, cooly, for a second, and I just turn
and go (spitting).
MATT: You pull your way away from the table.
Success is yours. That's now two victories on your
end. One for Ruth there and two final competitors.
"Second to last competitor, the powerhouse, The
"Walking Brick herself, Tanya!" This dwarven woman,
who looks like Rosie the Riveter on steroids,
comes around the corner. She has her sleeves
rolled up past the deltoids. She has these massive
hands with a bit of the dwarven hair gathered on
the outside of the forearm. Big, square jaw,
missing the two front teeth, and she grins as she
sits down. She has most of her hair up and tied
into this cloth. She got a bit of the coal smears
on her cheeks.
MARISHA: Yeah Tanya! Woo!
TRAVIS: Okay. I'll throw my leg over the chair and
sit down. Evening.
SAM: All right, Fjord!
MATT: "Ah. Evening to you."
MARISHA: I like Tanya!
TRAVIS: You ever done this before?
MATT: "Oh, like all the time. You?"
TRAVIS: No.
MATT: "Well, good luck then. I'm happy to see how
long you last, big boy. Fill it up!" They fill the
drinks. Take your first swig there.
TRAVIS: 16.
MATT: You both finish neck and neck, but you still
manage to get it down faster. As you both stand
there, she looks at you with a nod of being
impressed. "Not bad, not bad."
TRAVIS: Is that all there is to this?
MATT: "Oh, we've just gotten started."
TRAVIS: Fill her up!
MATT: "Fill her up!" Fill the next round.
MARISHA: Nott, she said you were bad!
TRAVIS: 13.
MATT: She beats you with a 16. As she goes ahead
and finishes off, sets it down and just waits for
you to finish, fingers crossed, and goes, "Cute,
cute. Not as strong as coming out of the gate. Is
"that all you got? You going to lose the wind in
your sails there, green boy?"
TRAVIS: I admit, I feel a little weak. I can't
tell if it's the drink or if it's your beautiful
visage sitting in front of me.
MATT: You hear this voice go, "Ah, ey ey! He's
mine."
TRAVIS: Shit. Fill her up.
MATT: They fill up the two drinks.
LAURA: I want to cast Mirror Image on myself in
front of... her. What's her name?
SAM: Tanya.
LAURA: Tanya, and wiggle to make it look like her
vision's starting to double.
MATT: Make a deception check.
LAURA: Oh no, that's bad. Yeah, that was the goal.
Eight!
MATT: Eight. You manage to do so. She doesn't seem
to be paying attention to you. Caleb, you're
getting really nauseous watching Jester do this
little dance off to the side.
LAURA: Whoa-oa-oa.
MATT: Make your roll.
TRAVIS: Natural 20.
MATT: No shit! Okay!
LIAM: That is one smooth seaman.
MATT: That's two victories to you, one victory to
her. With that one, you finish it abruptly, slam
it down, and you're like oh, you're actually
gaining a round. That weird swirling in your
stomach has faded and you've come into your own in
this game. She's looking-- you see the sweat
appearing on her brow. She's like, "That's okay.
There's more where that came from! Fill it up! I
"got his number, come on!" Make a roll off.
TRAVIS: Natural 20.
MATT: What the shit!
MARISHA: Fucking champ!
TALIESIN: Eye contact never broken!
MATT: And with that, Tanya goes down. She gets
halfway through the drink before, "No. Sorry," and
looks back towards Ol' Blemmy before she leans
forward and stumbles out of the chair. One of the
other people picks her up and pulls her to the
side, and Ol' Blemmy's just sitting there, fuming.
TRAVIS: Never get into a drinking game with a man
of the sea.
MATT: She goes, "And with that, it looks like Ol'
Blemmy's team has fallen! That's three victories-- "
at which, Ol' Blemmy puts up a hand and goes,
"Not yet! I haven't competed. One of theirs hasn't
"competed. How 'bout we make a deal? Last fight:
double or nothing."
LAURA: Wait, we can win money from this thing?
SAM: It was always about money.
LAURA: I thought we only got tokens or something
for free drinks.
TRAVIS: Nah, we win money. There's money in it. I
like it. I say we go for it.
LIAM: I like it as well, but only if you can match
this diamond worth, oh... about 100 gold.
TRAVIS: Are you putting in the f-- well.
LIAM: Give me something like that or there's no
deal.
MATT: They look at each other going, "I think
that's a little rich for our tastes."
LIAM: Oh.
LAURA: Aw, no, fuck it! Let's just do it without
that deal! Double or nothing! Go Nott! Yeah!
SAM: She's the worst negotiator ever!
TALIESIN: This is such a change of pace from last
year. It's so exciting.
LAURA: All my mirror images are like, yeah!
Drink!
MATT: "Who's going to come after me then?"
SAM: I'm scared.
LAURA: You've got it Nott!
SAM: All right. I've looked in the-- by the way,
Matt-- I've looked in the thing. The--
TRAVIS: The dodecahedron.
SAM: The dodecahedron.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: All right, I'll try. Hello, sir.
MATT: "This? This is what you bring before me as
an offering?"
TRAVIS: You know, she's called the Bottomless Pit.
(hiccups)
MATT: "I'm going to crush you, little green one."
MARISHA: Fuck his shit up, Nott! Fuck his shit
up!
SAM: All right, I'll try!
LAURA: Are you under Disguise Self?
SAM: No!
MATT: It's great. When he talks, you see the
bristles of the beard-- You can see as the evening
mistress up at the top goes, "All right! Looks
like we're going to get to see Ol' Blemmy strain
"through his baleen after all! Get to the sides of
the table. Let The Whale take a drink."
MARISHA and TRAVIS: The Whale?!
MARISHA: Oh shit!
SAM: I don't have this.
TRAVIS: You already have this!
MARISHA: Bottomless pit!
MATT: The dwarf sits down. His mitt completely
encompasses the tankard with his giant dwarven
hand. "Against Ol' Blemmy we have?"
SAM: (stammering) Hello. I'm Otto.
MATT: "Otto!"
LAURA: Woo!
SAM: Sorry.
TRAVIS: Otto the Bottomless Pit!
SAM: Yes.
MATT: "And drink!" Pours the drinks, make a roll.
SAM: It's a five.
LIAM: You could use it now?
MATT: Are you going to go with it?
SAM: Yeah, I'll use it now! Okay, that's better.
That's 17.
MATT: 17? You both chug down. You manage to finish
quickly, slam it down. Oh, this isn't as bad as
you thought. You've have much harder liquors than
this. The froth is filling at the edges of his
mustache and as he pulls it down, there's a
coating of foam from the drink resting there. A
tongue comes out of nowhere, this Cousin Itt
broom-like beard, the tongue takes the suds in.
That was a victory on your end.
SAM: I feel good. This feels right.
TRAVIS: Otto!
LIAM: Get it, von Bismarck!
MATT: Next batch. Make the roll.
SAM: I take out a bit of fleece and rub it and
cast Silent Image on myself, to make a pussy eye,
something real gross that looks real disgusting.
That's an 18.
MATT: 18? That's pretty damn good. Ol' Blemmy
finishes his drink. That's two for two victories
on your end there. He's not had the best luck
rolling these last two rounds. He finishes it
down, "You're small, but I can see why they call
you the Bottomless Pit."
MARISHA: Yeah, BP!
MATT: He grabs the barrel from the person and
fills his own last tankard, hands it off. "Let's
"go." Take the roll.
SAM: Can I drink this with Mage Hand pouring from
way up there?
MATT: If you really want to, sure.
SAM: I do.
MATT: So you're like, "Ah!" catching it
underneath. The crowds like, "Yeah!" clamoring. Go
ahead and make your roll.
SAM: Only 14.
MATT: As it's coming down, it's splashing on your
face a bit. You're trying to catch it all.
SAM: I got too cocky!
MATT: You manage to catch most of it and you
finish it. You realize that the liquors that
you've been having are not been mixing well with
this particular drink. You're starting to feel--
oof. That's a victory on his end.
SAM: Oh no!
MATT: All you hear is this subtle (chuckling).
Roll for the next one.
SAM: I don't think I can do it!
TRAVIS: Jester cut him! He can't see you out
there, cut him!
SAM: Cut my eyes! Cut my eyelids off!
LAURA: What? No! You got this, Nott! I'm going to
cast Bless.
SAM: Oh, what does that do?
LAURA: I think it gives you advantage on saving
throws. Is this a saving throw?
MATT: No, but you're blessed.
LAURA: But I cast it on you!
MATT: All right, make your roll.
SAM: That's a 21.
MATT: He rolled a natural 16 with a plus four
modifier, that puts him at 20.
(cheering)
TRAVIS and MARISHA: (chanting) Break the tank!
Break the tank!
MATT: As you both finish the drink, everyone is
like, "Yeah! Oh--" The whole crowd backs up for a minute.
TRAVIS: Nott!
SAM: Sorry.
MATT: Ol' Blemmy leans forward and goes, "Wait a
minute. Are you a fucking green--" and passes out
on the table, the saliva pools before him. The
crowd goes wild!
(cheering)
MATT: Irena leans does and fiddles through his
pockets and pulls out his token. He goes, "I do
"believe that you've earned this!"
SAM: Thank you.
MARISHA: (drunkenly) And we get our names on the
board!
SAM: What does this get me?
MATT: "Oh, it get you free drinks here for the
rest of the week. Or until someone takes it from you.
TRAVIS: Free drinks?
SAM: Guys, we can drink more!
MARISHA: (drunkenly) Yeah.
TRAVIS: (drunkenly) Yep.
LAURA: You guys look like shit.
LIAM: There's three of you.
LAURA: There are, yes.
MARISHA: My mouth is watering.
SAM: Let it be known that The Mighty Nein can take
on any competitor and win! Victory will be
ours in any arena!
MATT: "Yeah!" Cheers go up there. Already, there's
somebody off in the corner who's whittling a block
of wood and carving "The Mighty Nein" into it to
put on the wall. The rest of Ol' Blemmy's team
begrudgingly come up and drunkenly pass forward
their tokens and pass them over to you. You have
five drink tokens. Five of you can drink for free
at this bar.
SAM: Well worth it.
LAURA: Is there money involved here?
MATT: It was double or nothing, so that's 60 gold.
They end up having to pony up the rest of it.
There's a 20% cut for the house though, so that's
60 gold, losing 20% of that.
TALIESIN: I'll take 20 of that because I put in--
MATT: That's 48 gold go back to you guys.
LAURA: I take five because I gave Molly five.
MATT: Okay. Everyone claps you on the back and
starts cheering and shaking your hands and stuff.
"Oh, that was amazing!"
TRAVIS: Tell me you have biscuits and gravy or
something.
MATT: "We will in the morning."
TALIESIN: Oh, that will be perfect.
MATT: "Well, if you're looking for a meal-- "
SAM: Oh yeah!
MARISHA: She wants to fuck your brains out.
TRAVIS: You know, I think I have some more
libations in me.
SAM: Fjord, why not? We're in Hupperdook. Dook it
up!
TRAVIS: I know. The night is young! It's young!
TALIESIN: I can crash in another room. It's
perfectly fine.
TRAVIS: It's young, Molly!
LAURA: We do have an extra room.
TRAVIS: No, it's fine!
MARISHA: He's too drunk to fuck.
TRAVIS: Well, that's not true. I'm fine.
MARISHA: He's a little embarrassed. His penis gets
a little limp after a few drinks.
TRAVIS: Wow. Not at all.
MARISHA: It's nothing personal.
TRAVIS: She doesn't know me like that. It's not
real.
MATT: "I have a friend who's an herbalist who has
something could help with that."
TALIESIN: You have a friend who's an herbalist?
MARISHA: Do you have a topical cream? Nevermind,
that's a different problem.
TRAVIS: Where's your pisser?
MATT: "Oh! It's up, third floor. There's a bit of
a water closet. Just aim for the hole, please."
TRAVIS: I'll be right back. I go.
MARISHA: It's his penis problem again. What?!
MATT: You guys are trashed.
LIAM: You-- you are very-- you are-- you are very
drunk.
MARISHA: That's very observant.
LIAM: Am I also very drunk?
MARISHA: Can you feel this? Slap!
LIAM: I assume I take one hit point of damage. Or
1d4, from a monk.
MATT: I'd say you take a hit point.
LIAM: Okay.
TRAVIS: You're drunk. You're real relaxed.
MARISHA: Did you feel that? My hands are stinging
now.
LIAM: (singing) Oh, The Mighty Nein is The Mighty
Nein. The Mighty Nein is The Mighty Nein. The
mightiest nine that ever neined!
SAM: I like that song!
LIAM: (singing) Nine mighties, mighties nine!
LAURA: Do you guys need to go to bed or
something?
MARISHA: I think I'm going to puke.
SAM: I'm totally fine.
LAURA: You sound pretty normal, actually, Nott.
SAM: This is great.
MATT: Nott, you are intoxicated. You are
fearless.
LIAM: I thought we were going dancing.
SAM: I can do anything!
TRAVIS: Holy shit!
SAM: I can surf on a truck!
(laughter)
MARISHA: Give me five minutes. I'm going to go
out. I'm going to go behind the alley. I'm going
to barf. I'm going to clean myself up, and then
I'm going to go back in a little bit more put together.
TRAVIS: Puke and rally!
MARISHA: Yep!
LAURA: I'm going to ask Caleb to waltz with me.
LIAM: Okay.
TALIESIN: Nott, I'm so proud of you. I'm so proud
of you! So well done!
SAM: You were great out there.
MATT: In the midst of everything dying down,
people are starting to get pretty sloshed, and the
energy level, while still rather rowdy, some folks
are starting to tap out for the night. Jester
drags Caleb into the center of the tavern floor,
takes hands, and Caleb, almost running out on
autopilot, who does have some minor experience in
the past. Go ahead and make a performance check
with disadvantage, Caleb.
LIAM: That's cocked. That's okay. With advantage,
you say?
MATT: Disadvantage, because you're drunk.
LIAM: That's very low. Very low. That is a five.
MATT: Caleb, a moment passes before Jester begins
leading you, but you guys continue, the two of
you, to have a very nice little waltz in the
middle of the area. Quietly, the music begins to
change. What was once the rowdy bar music
transitions into an actual waltz piece as the
musicians notice this happening. The three fourths
begins to pick up. One two three, one two three.
As you guys continue to dance, a few other couples
begin to get up and start faking it. They don't
seem to know, but they're watching, playfully
making up their own waltz-type maneuver. An
impromptu, half-assed waltz begins to develop here
in the center of the tavern.
SAM: Mollymauk?
TALIESIN: I'm in!
SAM: We'll dance a bit.
MATT: You guys begin to join this as well. Which
one of you is leading?
TALIESIN: I'll lead.
SAM: Absolutely!
MATT: Molly's leading. Nott's at his beck and call
as you guys begin to dance around in a circle.
Beau and Fjord, you're drunkenly staring at this.
TRAVIS: I actually did not come back down.
MATT: Oh, that's right. You're still upstairs.
Fjord is passed the fuck out upstairs.
TRAVIS: I might have passed out in the pisser.
LIAM: Out there dancing: You were always a better
dancer than me, Astrid. You were always so good.
LAURA: Astrid?
LIAM: Ja.
LAURA: Oh, well, you know, Caleb--
LIAM: I break away. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
LAURA: Caleb, do you need to go to sleep?
LIAM: I stumble away.
LAURA: No, no, no! I grab his jacket.
SAM: Yes, you're way stronger!
LAURA: You are not going to go pass out in the
street. You told me to be in charge of this. I
walk him upstairs and makes sure he gets in bed.
MATT: Jester goes and tucks Caleb into one of the
rooms, in bed comfortably.
LIAM: You are blue.
LAURA: Yes, I am, and you are very nice and a
little stinky.
LIAM: (singing) One of those things is true, and
you are blue.
LAURA: I'm sure Astrid loves you very much. I tuck
him in.
TALIESIN: I'm going to grab Beau before we head
up.
MARISHA: I'm coming in the door. Let's keep going!
What?
TALIESIN: Is it all right if I try something? No,
nothing like that. I just wanted--
MARISHA: I will fucking punch you if you try and
kiss me.
TALIESIN: Oh god!
MARISHA: I know I'm attractive.
TALIESIN: How is your hangover? Whatever team your
on, I'm not sure I play for that one. It's Team
"fuck off," I'm well aware. How are your hangovers
normally?
MARISHA: Normally, I'll wake up and I sweat it
out.
TALIESIN: I got a weird thought. This may feel
weird. I'm going to try my blood maledict.
MARISHA: What?
TALIESIN: I'm going to do the Purgation advanced
to see if I can cure a hangover with it. I don't
know if it will work. Technically, it's a poison,
and I'm willing to drop some HP into this. It gets
a little fancy and it's mostly to see if I can
clean it up a little bit. Maybe it'll work, maybe it won't.
MATT: Are you going to amplify it or not?
TALIESIN: Oh, yeah. I want to see if it works.
MARISHA: I'm a hot mess and I like it!
MATT: Make a constitution saving throw, Beau.
MARISHA: Saving throw?
MATT: Yes.
MARISHA: God, this one does this every time.
TRAVIS: It's a fucking tease.
MARISHA: It's kind of a dick. Six.
MATT: You manage to sober her up a little bit, but
you're still pretty tipsy. From going blackout
drunk, you're now heavily buzzed and right at
drunk.
TALIESIN: I feel like this could be very useful.
I'm going to work on this.
MATT: What's interesting is, as you finish this,
out of some of the pores, the actual alcohol is
drawn out, hovers in the air for a second before
dropping on the ground.
MARISHA: No! No, that was a party foul!
TALIESIN: I wouldn't touch that!
MARISHA: Was that inside of me? Did you touch
inside me? Oh, fuck.
TALIESIN: Thank you for being part of my little
experiment.
MARISHA: All right, now what?
TALIESIN: I was just curious if I could pull
liquor out of people. I'm going to go throw up on
Fjord, excuse me.
MATT: Oh, no!
TALIESIN: I'm going to find Fjord and make sure
that however I throw up, it makes it so it looks
like he did it to himself.
(groaning)
MATT: No! Not like that!
LAURA and MATT: Not like this.
MATT: Do you leave Fjord in the bathroom?
TALIESIN: Oh, god no. I bring him back in.
MATT: Okay. You guys all make yourselves back to
your rooms. As you check inside, Yasha is asleep
in a corner, there with her sword at the side,
ready. Curled up against her chest is Kiri, also
asleep, bundled up, a little bustle of feathers.
LAURA: She tried to shave her.
MATT: You guys eventually find yourselves to rest
for the night, sleep. Long arduous morning comes
to, as the sun comes up through the windows. The
sound of distant, wandering roosters crowing at
daybreak break you into consciousness. The
hangovers are real. Beau's doing okay. There's a
little bit of a hangover, but not too bad.
Jester's totally sober. Yasha's sober.
LAURA: Sober! I'm doing ribbon dances in the
bedroom.
TALIESIN: Fuck off.
MATT: Jester, as you and Beau start to get ready,
you guys start gathering your things. Beau, your
coin purse is missing.
(gasping)
MARISHA: Motherfucker. Who did it? Jester! My
coi-- fuck. Fuck, I'm still hungover! Goddamn it!
LAURA: What?
MARISHA: My coin purse is missing!
SAM: Her koi pond!
MARISHA: My koi pond!
LAURA: Your money is gone? Is my money still on
me?
MATT: You still have your money on you.
LAURA: I still have my money. What happened to
yours?
MARISHA: Motherfucker, there was 300 gold in
there!
LAURA: You should really spread it out, Beau!
That's really not good! Should we go looking for
it? Maybe you dropped it under the bed. Can I
start looking around the room?
MATT: Make an investigation check.
MARISHA: Someone's going to fucking die.
LAURA: 16.
MATT: You spend a few moments looking around, and
it's nowhere to be seen in the room.
LAURA: I think somebody might have taken it from
you.
MARISHA: Yeah, I think that's exactly what
happened.
LAURA: Oh no. I wonder if that's a common thing
when people get drunk like that.
MARISHA: We're going to go talk to Irene right
now. I bet she knows the motherfucker. We're going
to fucking track him down.
LAURA: Irena?
MARISHA: Whatever that bitch's name is. Let's go!
MATT: All right, is everybody else waking up?
SAM: Sure.
LAURA: Hey! I knock on the doors really loud.
Check your coin purses!
(groaning)
LAURA: Make sure you have your money still!
TRAVIS: What's wrong with you?
SAM: Do we have our money?
MATT: No.
SAM: Wait, all of our money is gone?
MATT: Nott, Molly, Fjord, your coin purses are
gone, and we're going to take a break!
TRAVIS: You!
MARISHA: I lied; I had way more in there than
that. We just got fucking-- (exhales deeply)
TRAVIS: That's a lot of money.
TALIESIN: That's a lot of money.
LAURA: What about Caleb? Does Caleb have his
money?
TRAVIS: (screaming)
MARISHA: All two gold?
LIAM: All five of my gold. Do I have my
motherfucking books?
MATT: Your books are still with you.
LAURA: What about your diamond?
MATT: Your diamond you keep with your components.
That wasn't missing. It was just the coin purse missing.
MARISHA: All right guys, here's the deal--
LAURA and MATT: We're taking a break.
MARISHA: No, fuck! I'm so angry! Fuck!
MATT: Hold it!
(laughter)
MATT: I love that woman. All right, guys, we'll be
back here in a few minutes. Stay tuned for the
break. We have Jason Charles Miller's video about
his awesome album. Check it out, and we'll see you
here in a few minutes.
MATT: And welcome back. Returning to where we
were, The Mighty Nein, coming to consciousness,
most of them with a roaring hangover, have come to
realize that all of their money has been pilfered.
Other than Jester and Yasha, everyone else appears
to, at some point during the evening, lost their
monetary gains. As you guys are finding this out,
what do you do?
SAM: I accuse Jester of stealing our money!
LAURA: Me? Why would I steal your money?
SAM: You're right. It's stupid.
LAURA: That is really dumb.
SAM: We, as detectives, should think clearly about
this and figure out: when was the money stolen?
Did you all have your money after the competition?
MARISHA: Yeah, we put our winnings-- we split it
up and threw it in the pack.
SAM: Between the competition and bedtime, our
money was stolen.
LAURA: So it had to be somebody that seems
inconspicuous, walking around the room and
stealing people's money!
TRAVIS: It's that damn bird.
LAURA: Kiri? I think she'd be noticeable
downstairs taking people's money.
SAM: Is Kiri with us?
MATT: Kiri is with Yasha.
SAM: Kiri, did you steal our money?
MATT: (chirping), (like Jester) "Go fuck
yourself!"
TRAVIS: Don't stop there. She's a kleptomaniac. I
can tell!
LAURA: I might be able to help us. Also, there was
this little girl who seemed really sweet, but she
was walking around inconspicuously throughout the
room, and maybe she did it.
MARISHA: I also don't think this was necessarily a
one-person job. Normally there's a couple people
doing stuff like that, or one person is a runner,
and one person is a looker.
LAURA: Maybe we should ask Irena if it happens
often when these things go on.
TRAVIS: I thought you said you had something.
LAURA: Oh, yes. I have a spell that can locate
objects.
SAM: That cuts down on our detective work a lot.
LAURA: Well, I could locate potentially a money
purse.
MARISHA: Do you remember what my bag looked like?
It matches my sash that you still have on your wand.
LAURA: It's on this wand, yes!
MARISHA: I almost forgot we tied that on! That was
funny. Man, we were drunk.
TRAVIS: Can we bring the volume level down?
MARISHA: Sorry.
SAM: But it was only the five who competed who
were robbed.
LAURA: It was only the five who got stupid
drunk.
MARISHA: We were super drunk.
SAM: It could be because we won, and Blemmy's crew
stole our money.
LAURA: We should find out if Blemmy's crew also
got stolen from. Do we remember if Blemmy's crew
hung around the tavern afterwards?
MATT: To your memory, they didn't. Shortly after
the competition, tucking their tails, they went to
find another place to drink and not have to be in
the eyes of people that watched them lose.
LAURA: Okay.
SAM: So we're going to talk to Irena, and then
we're going to maybe find Blemmy, or maybe just
follow Locate Object.
LIAM: We are not going to start with the spell
that will lead us to it?
TALIESIN: I say we start the spell now in case
they decide to throw away the coin purses. Unless
somebody knows something that was in their purse
that was of actually of value that they could
recognize. I need some bacon. Does anyone have
money for bacon?
LAURA: I still have money.
MARISHA: Nott, did you have any of those trinkets,
like my jade bracelet, in your bag?
SAM: I'm wearing it.
MARISHA: Fuck!
SAM: No, I only keep my valuable things in other
pockets.
LAURA: It has to be within a thousand feet, and it
only lasts for ten minutes.
SAM: Within how many feet?
LAURA: A thousand. Which is not that far.
MARISHA: Let's see if we can get some tips, and
that's something later.
LAURA: What if I cast Zone of Truth on Irena?
MARISHA: That's not a bad idea.
SAM: Well, let's sees if she talks first.
TRAVIS: Yeah, that's a good idea.
LAURA: But how will we know if she's telling the
truth? She seems shady as fuck.
SAM: Does she? I haven't talked to her.
LAURA: Yeah, I don't like her at all.
TALIESIN: Let's try not to escalate anything too
quickly yet.
SAM: Molly could use his masculine wiles to talk
to--
LAURA: I think Fjord should do it.
TALIESIN: Do I have masculine wiles?
SAM: You have pan wiles?
TALIESIN: I'm into it. I'll take it.
LAURA: "The affected creature is aware of the
spell." Always?
TALIESIN: Why don't we save that for the moment
that we have somebody we definitely want to
interrogate, instead of somebody who might tell us
they don't know anything.
TRAVIS: Let's go down and talk to Irena.
TALIESIN: And get breakfast.
LAURA: We go looking for Irena. I think she did
it.
MATT: You guys head down to the bottom floor of
the tavern, and it is empty. From seeing it so
busy the night before, it is just 20-odd empty
tables. There is Irena at the bar, who's
currently sitting down in the process eating a
sandwich, probably looking a little hungover
herself. Sitting at a far table, in the middle of
cleaning out her fingernails, is Rissa.
LAURA: Rissa did it.
TRAVIS and TALIESIN: No.
SAM: She did it.
LAURA: We should get them at the same table and
ask them questions, because they have to be within
15 feet of me.
TRAVIS: I don't think it was her. She's been
nice.
TALIESIN: If it was Rissa, what is she still doing
here?
LAURA: Oh, good point.
SAM: I still think she did it.
TRAVIS: I'm thankful for your seedy background
right now, Molly.
TALIESIN: Let's get some breakfast, before
anything happens.
MARISHA: With what fucking money, Molly?
LAURA: With my money. I'll buy you guys breakfast.
(singing) Irena!
MATT: You walk up. "Good morning. You're all
looking appropriately fucked."
MARISHA: Yeah, in a few ways.
MATT: "What can I get for you?"
SAM: Bacon.
MATT: "Breakfast can be done, let me grab that.
Sid! Sid, more breakfast!"
LAURA: Irena, did you see anybody taking all of
our money last night?
MATT: "No, why? Did someone take all your money
last night?"
LAURA: Does it happen all the time when people do
this drinking game?
MATT: "If you're not paying attention and you have
a lot on you, well, that's your own fault."
MARISHA: Do you know anyone where that's their
little side hobby?
MATT: "I don't know anyone particularly, but it
happens sometimes. That's why most folks that go
"out only take a few coins with them."
TRAVIS: The fucking kids had, like, six coins on
them. Happens all the time.
MATT: "If you're walking around with a bank in
your pocket, I mean, you're asking for it."
LAURA: Wait, what did you guys do with our cart?
TRAVIS: It's out front.
TALIESIN: It was strung up.
TRAVIS: It was tied to the hitching post.
LAURA: Would you have woken up in your drunken
stupor?
LIAM: Of course I would.
SAM: We'll go check.
LAURA: Yeah, we go look at the cart. Is it still
there and protected?
MATT: You turn around and the cart is protected.
There are crownsguard that patrol the main area.
It's not as busy as it was last night, of course.
It seems they come out in full force. A lot of
them seem to sleep during the day and then come
out at night to keep watch, because that's when a
lot of things happen, but there are a few. There's
one that's posted on the far corner. It looks like
nobody's messed with the cart because it is out in
the open.
LAURA: Should've left our money in the cart.
TRAVIS: Excuse me! Can I have a mi-- (hiccups)
minute of your time?
MATT: Are you referring to--
TRAVIS: The crownsguard.
MATT: Okay, so you've exited the tavern.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm walking out.
TALIESIN: I'm sitting down to breakfast.
LAURA: I'm going back in the tavern.
SAM: Me too.
MATT: The food is being brought out to you slowly
over the next 30 minutes or so. The crownsguard
looks to you. He's human, a bushy, not really
well-kept blond beard.
TRAVIS: Morning.
MATT: "Morning."
TRAVIS: You go first, yeah. (breathing deeply)
MATT: "You all right there, buddy?"
TRAVIS: We tied one on last night, in a harsh
way.
MATT: "I can see you're newcomers to the town,
then."
TRAVIS: Indeed. So much so that we seem to have
been relieved of our coin during last night's revelry.
MATT: "You don't say."
TRAVIS: Yeah. Does that happen a lot around here?
MATT: "To conspicuous folks? Maybe. It happens
every now and then, we try and keep an eye out
"there. As with any place of business, there is
always going to be some element of theft. Nothing
"we saw out of the ordinary, but we can begin to
investigate if you like."
TRAVIS: Well that might not be necessary. I
believe it was our fault. But just out of
curiosity, is there anywhere in town that, I don't
know, there might be an infestation of this sort
of problem? Do you know any common areas where
folks engaged in this sort of activity might
gather at night or in the day? Areas of trouble
that you've dealt with before-- oh god, am I sweating?
MATT: "You are, profusely. I can't say there's a
specific region. If anything, the workplaces here
"are not teeming with that element. The industrious
nature of the city keeps itself busy in a very
"visible place. Perhaps, somewhat here in the
Idleworks Shelf, there's the residential areas of
"Silver Falls. Those are probably the more likely
areas. I wouldn't look in the lower half. Up here
"in this shelf and beyond would probably be the
most-- Are you sure? I don't mind, I could
"probably keep an eye out. Is there any information
you have about these individuals who robbed you may be?"
TRAVIS: (sighs) We're a little light on details,
unfortunately. You know what, I'm going to go eat
a half a cow, and then maybe once that's soaked up
some of this I'll return. If I remember anything else.
MATT: "Yeah, I think you should go do that."
TRAVIS: All right, thank you, have a good
morning.
MATT: "You too." He sits back into his post,
looking a bit confused.
SAM: Ask Irena about the little girl.
LAURA: Irena, what about the little girl?
MATT: "I don't know what you're talking about.
Which little girl?"
LAURA: There's a little girl that was walking
around last night that was asking for money and stuff.
MATT: "Oh yeah, the beggar. She comes in every now
and then. Some folks help her get along."
LAURA: She doesn't steal things?
MATT: "Not that I've seen. She's like a waif.
What're you talking about?" Make an insight check.
MARISHA: Is she lying to me? Does she know more?
12.
MATT: I mean, as best as you can read she seems to
be forthright. As best as you can read.
LAURA: I'm going to cast Zone of Truth.
MATT: Okay. So what's the saving throw on that?
What's the DC?
TRAVIS: I like it.
LAURA: Charisma...
TRAVIS: Cut to the fucking chase!
LAURA: 15.
TRAVIS: Trim the fat!
MATT: No, she fails. She goes like, "What's going
on?"
LAURA: What are you talking about?
MATT: Because if I recall, yeah, she is aware of
the spell. She's like, "What sort of trickery are
"you doing here? I don't like this. I'll ask you to
leave."
LAURA: Oh, I don't think you need to do that. I'm
just, you know, curious about what happened last
night, if you have ever seen any shady figures in
here.
MATT: "There are many shady figures that come
through here. It's a town."
TRAVIS: (cooing) More specific!
LAURA: Do you know of anyone who would've stolen
coins from people?
SAM: Who was here last night?
MATT: "There was a lot of people here last night.
I know you're asking me-- Look, I'm a
"shady-looking character sometimes as well. I can't
pick it. There's a lot of hard-working people here."
LAURA: Did you steal the money?
MATT: "I did not steal your money!"
LAURA: I'm just checking. Do you know who stole
our money?
MATT: "No, I don't know who stole your money!"
LAURA: Hey Rissa, come here for a second!
TALIESIN: But if you were going to suspect
somebody, who would it be?
MATT: "I don't know. You damn well pissed off Ol'
Blemmy. He's a possible one. Otherwise, I don't
"know if anyone got too friendly with you last
night. I mean you've got to get close to take your money."
LAURA: Was anyone friendly with you guys?
TALIESIN: Not with me.
MATT: "I didn't send any people up to your rooms,
because you told me not to pay for-- I was holding
"your cash, which I've still got by the way. And
the offer still stands. But--"
MARISHA: Is there a thieves' guild?
MATT: "I don't know, probably."
LAURA: Rissa, come here!
MATT: Rissa comes up. "I can help you?"
SAM: Irena, if Molly was interested, would you
like--
LAURA: Snip his--
SAM: No, just like--
TALIESIN: I don't understand what you're trying to
imply here.
SAM: Nevermind, let's go to Rissa.
LAURA: No seriously though, what was this? Why is
this having sex?
SAM: Don't you guys use scissors when you have sex
with each other?
MARISHA: Is this a goblin thing?
TALIESIN: This might be a goblin thing.
SAM: This is real.
LAURA: Stop it.
LIAM: Just a boulder parchment shears reference.
It's simple.
LAURA: Rissa! Do you know of anyone who steals
money from drunk people?
MATT: "Not personally. I'm sure there are folks
out there."
LAURA: Did you see anyone taking our friends'
money last night?
MATT: She rubs her temples and you can tell she is
a little hungover herself, too. She's like, "No..."
TALIESIN: Did those two gentlemen come back into
the bar at any point?
TRAVIS: Fitz and Ashton.
LAURA: Ooh, good call.
MATT: "I saw them come in at one point, but then
leave when they noticed I was still hanging with
"you folks, so thank you for that. I appreciate
that."
TALIESIN: I mean, at the very least that'll be
fun.
LAURA: Man. Do we have any other questions to ask?
Who are you all attracted to. Do you guys like me?
SAM: That's what I was trying to get to. Wait, us?
We have to answer truthfully?
LAURA: Yeah, because you were standing next to me
anyway.
LIAM: If you're within 15 feet.
SAM: You're not my type.
MATT: If all the rest of you are in the area?
TALIESIN: Everybody's my type. I'm really pretty
easy.
LIAM: I was at the door. I don't know how big the
place is.
MATT: If anybody else steps into that zone, you
have to make a saving throw.
LIAM: I was going to do something before Jester
did what she did.
MARISHA: What was your question?
LAURA: Who are you attracted to? Do you like me?
Are we friends? Do you really like me and stuff?
MATT: Make a saving throw.
MARISHA: Wow, that was a layer of questions.
SAM: I like you. You're nice.
LAURA: Really?
SAM: Yes.
MATT: Charisma, right?
LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: What is it, charisma saving throw? 16.
MATT: Yeah, you resist it.
MARISHA: I like you a lot. Here's the deal.
(laughter)
MARISHA: Has there been a raise in criminal
activity? Is there something in the town that
would start provoking people to want to pickpocket
more? Is the rise in the war effort bringing
people down? There's got to be some reason.
MATT: Rissa goes, "I mean, it's possible, I
imagine. People are distracted. They're working
"hard. They're having to push out double time in a
lot of their work to get things out to the front
"lines. It's possible."
TALIESIN: Whoever took our purses has our drink
tokens too.
MARISHA: They do have our drink tokens. That was
in the bag.
TRAVIS: You didn't need to remind her, she's ready
to pop as it is, all right?
TALIESIN: I'm just saying that if drink tokens
come back to the bar--
LAURA: Then you know. (gasps)
MARISHA: I wouldn't come back the next night if it
were me. I would want to make sure that we were gone.
TALIESIN: But somebody's got them.
LIAM: How could they even use them? Because only
the winners that everyone saw won them.
SAM: They're probably not going to use them.
They're just one drink. They would keep
all the hundreds of gold.
TALIESIN: I would keep it, though.
MARISHA: But I think that could be a better
target for your lost object spell.
That's what I was thinking.
LAURA: Yeah. Because it probably blends in. Are
they the same sort of shape as regular coins?
MATT: They are, but they're wooden and a little
bit bigger than an actual gold coin.
TALIESIN: Anytime I've stolen something I
couldn't use later I've always kept it for
sentimental reasons. I'm not sure why.
MARISHA: Yeah, it's a prize. It's a reminder of
your good job.
LAURA: That's smart. Should I cast it?
TALIESIN: I don't steal anymore. Much.
Sometimes--
MARISHA: Hang on. Irena.
MATT: "Yes? What you asking?"
MARISHA: Do you have any new staff members?
MATT: "No, it's just me and Syd." At this point
Syd brings out the last of the food, the male
gnome who you saw when you first entered. He's
like, "So, all of your food is ready. Enjoy."
MARISHA: You mentioned being able to get us
friends and other type of services. Where do you
find those resources?
MATT: "Through a friend of mine."
MARISHA: What's her name?
MATT: "Why are you asking me all these
questions? I didn't send anyone up to your room,
"and I'm not going to spill all of my business
propositions your direction."
MARISHA: I don't think you did any of that at all.
I just think you might know who did. Even if you
don't consciously know, I think you have an idea.
MATT: "Not really, lass."
LAURA: She's telling the truth.
LIAM: Do you give a shit about our problems?
MATT: "No."
TRAVIS: Rissa, do you know where this Ashton and
Fitz stay?
MATT: She nods and takes another sip of her
morning coffee, and goes, "Aye, they're about two
"blocks down from my father's... shack. A couple of
kids that-- although at this hour they're probably
"working at the anvil."
MARISHA: If I wanted to go hock some stolen goods,
where would I go?
MATT: "I don't know. I haven't hocked stolen goods
around here. I'm sorry."
SAM: One more question!
MATT: To which one? You have both Rissa--
SAM: Irena. Where does the pianist live?
MATT: "What, of the band?"
SAM: Yeah, the guy playing the piano.
MATT: "Here! He has a room on the third floor."
LAURA: Well, maybe if I cast Locate Object we'll
find out.
SAM: What's his name? We never asked.
LAURA: He was really talented, though. I mean,
like, super duper.
MATT: He was Weimar.
LAURA: Weimar.
TALIESIN: He had to flip a page for that one. It
was exciting.
TRAVIS: Why don't we start by going around where
Fitz and Ashton lived and then maybe we can pay a
little visit to Rissa's pops?
TALIESIN: Yeah, she said they lived by her pops'
place.
LAURA: Yeah, we'll go and I'll cast Locate Object
and maybe we'll just pass by something.
TALIESIN: I wanted to meet Pops anyway. He sounds
interesting.
MATT: She's like, "Oh, all right. Fair warning--
pardon me, rough morning."
TALIESIN: We feel that.
MATT: "So where are you wanting, are you looking
for the boys? The Steelbringer's Forge first, or
"going to my pop's place?"
TALIESIN: We'll go to your father's place first. I
think we'll maybe, if we're in the mood, pop into
their place while they're not home, perhaps.
MARISHA: Who? What, the Fitz and that guy?
MATT: "Okay, follow me." She gets up and finishes
her coffee, sets it back down, and you guys take
whatever scraps remain of your breakfast and make
your way back out into the street.
LAURA: Pocket bacon! Before we leave, I ask Irena,
who's still in the Zone of Truth, are you really
interested in Fjord or are you just flirting with
him because it makes you some money and stuff?
MATT: "Both? I'm a businesswoman, but I've got my
needs."
LAURA: Oh. Okay. Thank you. I cast Locate Object
on the coins.
SAM: Already? We're not there yet. Now? Okay.
LAURA: It lasts for ten minutes. What if it's in
the tavern still?
SAM: Makes sense.
MATT: Okay, so you cast it. You're in the tavern.
You're not getting anything.
SAM: Let's run!
TALIESIN: We're going to put you on a cart, and
we're going to take the cart.
LAURA: I feel like we'll walk faster than the cart
will go.
TALIESIN: Will we walk faster than the cart will
go?
MATT: In the town, getting the cart around can be
a bit of a pain. It's comparable, but you also
have to deal with a cart.
LAURA: Let's walk quickly!
MATT: Rissa leads you further through the Shelf. At
this point, once again, the town is fairly quiet,
and most folks you do see in the street are in the
process of carrying supplies. There are a few
horse-drawn carts that have stacks of metal ingots
that are being taken from above or below, or vice
versa. You can see partially made metal plates and
curved structures of larger things that are being
developed and created separately and then all
being brought to a singular location, probably
down near the artillery yard. It's a very
interesting black and white, day and night
separation of how the people live in this city. A
short jaunt around, probably the spell does fade
before you get there, but you're still not picking
up any blip. About a few minutes after the spell
fades, you get to the outside of a small shack.
It's got metallic siding, there are rivets in it.
You see it has a roof that is metal sheets. There
is a smokestack on top that's giving out this lazy
smoke drip that makes its way into the sky, and a
sign out front that says "Tinkertop Inventions."
MARISHA and LAURA: Aw!
TRAVIS: When we get there after our run, I chuck
up a little salsa into the back of my throat and
swallow it down.
TALIESIN: Really? All right.
MATT: She goes (sighs). Rissa rolls her eyes, and
knocks on the metallic door. "Yes? Come in." "Dad,
"it's me. I have some friends here, they just want
to say hi. They got thieved." "Oh, that's all
"right, come on in, certainly!" (sighs) She opens
the door, and on the inside, you already hear the
whirring of hundreds of tiny clockwork objects. On
the inside, you can see, wall to wall, clocks of
all sizes. Some broken, springs exposed. Some that
are fixed, and clicking away. Some that have small
sculptures that move in a circle around a central
area. You can see partially made pulleys, small
toys that are set up on the corner, some wooden,
some metal, and all of them have some sort of
built-in clockwork locomotion to them, though they
are currently still. There are two sets of
lanterns that are hanging in the back, giving the
faint light which is, as you enter, giving this
dark silhouette to a lot of these objects, but as
you walk into the light and look behind you, you
can see the detail work in them, and they're very
beautiful and very well-made. It's at that point you
hear a (crash) "Ah! Ugh!" You glance over and you
can see, hopping up and down, running his hand
like this, this older gnome character with patches
of white-gray hair, this big bush of a white
beard. It's well-trimmed up here and then comes to
a point at the bottom. Very large spectacles with
a number of smaller and even smaller lenses in the
front of it. He's currently wearing a leather
apron and sleeves that are rolled up, and one of
his hands is currently now bleeding on the edge
and he's like (distressed noises). "I'm terribly
sorry about that! Come forward! She said you're
"the friends of my lass there. How are you doing?
What's your names?"
TRAVIS: Morning. We're The Mighty Nein. We had the
pleasure of meeting your daughter yesterday. She
showed us a great time last night.
MATT: "Oh, did you, dear? That's so nice! You're
making friends." Rissa's like, "Dad, please stop
"it. Look, they just wanted to come by, they had
some questions, I think. Do what you're going to
"do, please, so we get going."
TALIESIN: How close are we to the other houses at
this point? To the boys?
LAURA: Probably not within a thousand feet.
MATT: The boys, she mentioned earlier, are a few
blocks down, or a few buildings down and up from
where you are. "Well, at the very least let me
introduce myself! I'm Mastermaker Cleff Tinkertop!"
LAURA: Cleff or Cliff?
MATT: "Cleff."
TALIESIN: I was excited to see what sort of
stuff--
MATT: "Creator and experimenter of all things
metallic and clicking!"
LAURA: Your shop is beautiful!
MATT: "Thank you so much! I appreciate that! So
yeah, what can I do for you?"
LAURA: Do you have any little toys that Kiri would
like?"
MATT: "What's--?"
SAM: Kiri's our little daughter, she's a bird."
LAURA: Kiri is right here.
MATT: You look over and Yasha's still behind. Kiri
(chirping). He's like, "That's a mighty big bird!"
LAURA: She's a little girl.
MATT: She leans forward, looks up to him. (like
Cleff) "She's a mighty big bird!" He's like,
"That's a nice trick on that one! I like that."
LAURA: She's very talented.
MATT: "Do you like--" and he pulls this small
contraption, it's actually a miniature version of
what you saw those large bolt throwers that were
constructed out front, where it has this bowed arc
and there's a small, blunted stick in it. He goes,
"All you do is pull back on this trigger." Ping!
It fires off, narrowly missing the side of Beau's
head, hits something, and you hear glass shatter
in the background and he goes, "Oh, maybe not that one."
Puts it back. (cranking) And hands something over
to Kiri, who accepts it. There's a moment where
things are awkward and there's a tension, and
you're about to go-- before it opens up and from the
inside you see this tiny metallic bird, its wings
flap up and down. A music box begins to play
(metallic song) and Kiri, looking at this, begins
mimicking exactly the sound of the music box
(metallic song). It's almost one beat behind it,
until it synchronizes, and she's mimicking at such
an incredibly fast pace behind it that they're
almost in unison, until eventually it slows down
and comes to a stop. Kiri looks back to you (chirping).
LAURA: Do you like it? How much is that?
MATT: "Oh, that one, it's a beautiful piece. I'll
be happy to let it go for about three gold pieces."
LAURA: Three gold pieces. I think that's worth it,
Kiri. Okay. Three gold pieces.
MATT: There's a whole smattering of cool
contraptions, now that you're looking at the back, too.
Some that look like they could be armaments,
almost. Some that look like they're the insides of
larger machine pieces.
TALIESIN: What's the thing you're most proud of?
MATT: "Ah, proud of, now? I have one thing I'm
working on, if you want to see it."
TALIESIN: Oh, absolutely!
MATT: "Okay! I've been hoping they'd pay attention
to this. Since the whole war's going on, I think
"it'd be quite useful. I've lost some good favor
with folks in power, but I hope maybe this will
"turn my fortune around." He goes around, off to
the shelf, and pulls this down, and a bow of some
kind that's affixed to this large device. It looks
like a crossbow, but it's got a heavy crank on one
side, and it has all these extra grooves put in
where it's easy to assemble a bolt in there. The
actual shaft of it is made of this polished,
treated wood, with metal casing where the grip is.
It's like a half-clockwork, gear-based crank hand
crossbow.
TRAVIS: A repeating crossbow.
MARISHA: It's a repeating crossbow.
SAM: How does it work?
MATT: "Well, you lower the bolt into here, and you
crank it back real fast," and it's like
(squeaking) as he cranks it, "I probably have to
oil this. Crank it. Then, you just release!" This
one goes, just parting Caleb's hair, into the roof
above.
LIAM: How many gold is that toy?
MATT: "Well, this one, you see, I had a friend of
mine go ahead and help prepare it
"with some magical enchantment."
LAURA: (distorted) Whoa!
SAM: What the fuck was that?
LAURA: I don't know, it sounded like a cow, or
like a manatee was at the table, I don't know.
MATT: "I call this one The Tinkertop Boltblaster
1000."
LAURA: Whoa!
TALIESIN: What happened to the other 999?
LAURA: How much is it?
MATT: "This one runs just over 2000 gold."
LAURA: Whoa, that is a lot of gold.
MATT: "Well, it's my prototype, so if I'm going to
let it go..."
SAM: Am I allowed to rob him?
MARISHA and TALIESIN: No.
MATT: Rissa's like, "Dad, they don't want it, it's
fine. No one wants all your bullshit, please."
TRAVIS: That's not true, it actually is quite
impressive.
MATT: "You wouldn't say that if you'd known what
some of his other things have done." He gets quiet
for a second and recoils, quietly hurt. He goes,
"It comes with the job sometimes. Not everything
"works out like you hope."
TRAVIS: You said you'd lost some favor with people
in power. I don't mean to pry, but would you mind
sharing what happened?
MATT: "Uh--" and Rissa's like, "Ah, it's-- you
don't have to answer him. We can go find the
"boys." "It's all right." Make a persuasion check.
TRAVIS: Come on. Shamone! Oh, yeah, that's a 20.
MATT: 20? You see his trepidation there, and he
goes, "You look like you've got an honest face,
"so: I was working on a job here for the wardens of
the Gearhold Prison down below. I was helping them
"and came up with, at their request, what would be
a clockwork warden. Something that could help keep
"watch over some of the more dangerous and
difficult inmates of the prison below. And I did
"it. I was very proud of it. On its first foray, it
had some faults I didn't see coming, and we
"couldn't control it. It began to just destroy
whatever was in its way."
LIAM: Are you speaking of an automaton?
MATT: "More or less."
LAURA: Did it kill people?
MATT: "They tell me. They keep it down there
still. They've sealed it off and it's been
"there for the better part of two years and every
now then, they like to remind me. I didn't mean
"anything bad by it. I was just doing my job and I
thought I was very proud of my work. I didn't see
"the problems there. I was just trying to help."
MARISHA: How do they remind you?
MATT: "They come by and tell me."
TRAVIS: Are there punishments levied against you?
MATT: "Thankfully, not many. I'm still paying off
my fine. They were going to try and destroy the
"thing, but unfortunately they've had to allocate
their attention to many places, and now with the
"war coming, I don't know if they'll ever get to
it. But as long as it's down there, it's a black
"spot on my name, and her name." Rissa goes, "Dad,
just please stop it."
LAURA: We could destroy it.
SAM: Or get it back for you.
LAURA: And then you could give us the crossbow.
MATT: "I don't want to send any more people to
their death, at the very least."
LAURA: We're really strong.
TRAVIS: Yeah, we're kind of death-adverse.
MARISHA: Plus, we would love to pay for your
crossbow, but we're currently light.
TRAVIS: Fuck, we're broke.
LAURA: All of our money was stolen. All of their
money was stolen. I was sober.
MATT: "Good for you."
LAURA: Thank you.
MATT: "A learned lesson for the rest of you."
LAURA: It was a choice, you know. Everybody else
was like, "Let's get drunk!" and I was like, "That
"is really bad and I should probably stay sober."
MATT: "I'm very proud of you. I mean, that sounds
very kind of folks that wandered in here naught
"but a few moments ago."
SAM: What would you do if you had the thing back,
or--
MATT: "Oh, I don't want it back, I just want it
gone. I want it destroyed, I want it taken care of
"and buried. I don't want to touch it."
MARISHA: Wait, who wandered in here before?
MATT: "You."
LAURA: Yeah, he was just talking about us. You're
still drunk, aren't you?
TRAVIS: Are you afraid this clockwork warden could
be used for malign purposes?
MATT: "I don't think it could be used for anything
but just killing what's in front of it right now."
LIAM: So they have it penned in, but it is out of
their control?
MATT: "From what I know. You'd have to go ask the
Wardenhelm. I don't go down there places. I mean,
"I can't expect you to do something like that. It's
very sweet of you to offer."
TRAVIS: It's tit for tat. In this case, we're
short on coin, and you make mighty fine objects.
Seems to have caught the eye of most of our
group.
MATT: "I mean, in a theoretical space, which is
where I live most of my days, if you were to put
"this blight to rest, I'd be happy to give this to
you free of charge and my thanks."
TRAVIS: We will take it under consideration.
MARISHA: And, just while we're talking, you
wouldn't happen to know of any criminal
undergrounds, thieves' guilds, pickpocketers,
people of the night?
MATT: "I don't--"
MARISHA: Roamers of shadows?
MATT: "I don't delve in those places. I'm sorry."
LAURA: Vampires, zombies?
MATT: "I don't know what's going on!"
SAM: It's okay. Calm down.
TRAVIS: Cleff, do you also have simple arms?
MATT: "I deal with more detailed arms. If you're
looking for simple, you're probably going to go to
"the Steelbringer's Forge." Rissa goes, "That's
where the boys will probably be. That's where they work."
TRAVIS: Probably heading that way anyway. The
anvil.
SAM: Cleff, you know, you seem to have a fine eye
and talent for mechanical devices.
MATT: "Thank you very much."
SAM: Do you ever have any need of alchemical
combinations with your mechanical devices?
MATT: "I'm always looking for fine oils. Clockwork
tends to need to be lubricated."
SAM: I think I have a little oil, if you need it.
As a sign of good faith. Didn't we get oil at some point?
LAURA: I don't think so.
MARISHA: I threw mine at a troll.
SAM: Wait. Oh, wait, no. I have holy water. That
is not the same thing.
MATT: "That's all right. Don't worry about it.
That's okay. If you come across some oil, I could use it."
SAM: All right.
MATT: "Rissa. I like your friends." She's like,
"Thank you, Dad."
TRAVIS: You raised her good. She's been taking
good care of us.
MATT: "Have you found work yet?" "No, Dad. I'm
working on it."
TRAVIS: Awkward.
SAM: She's working for us.
MATT: "Right, I'm working for them."
TALIESIN: At the moment.
MATT: "Good, good. Proud of you."
MARISHA: Subcontractor work isn't too bad of a
living.
MATT: "Oh, no. It's still a living. That's more
than some folks in the Empire can say."
SAM: We need her Social Security Number for a 1099
by the way.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: I believe she's incorporated. She's
incorporated.
SAM: Well, okay. Then we're fine.
MATT: Any good gnome is incorporated. I mean,
that's a cultural thing.
LIAM: Fucking Hupperdook bureaucracy.
MATT: 13th birthday they get their S Corp set up.
It's great.
(laughter)
LAURA: Okay okay okay.
TRAVIS: Cleff, we appreciate your time. We are
going to venture out.
MATT: "Of course. I expect nothing. I really
appreciate you being so kind. Good luck."
TRAVIS: Our compliments on your work. It is truly
spectacular.
MATT: "Take care of my Rissania." She's like--
ALL: Rissania!
TRAVIS: There it is.
TALIESIN: That was what I was hoping for, and it
happened.
MATT: You can see her shiver at the door and then
just run out. "Goodbye! Take care!" (ping)
Something shoots off. "Oh, damn it." As you all
leave and exit out, she's out there fuming outside.
SAM: He's adorable.
MATT: "He's something. He's certainly something."
MARISHA: As we leave, I grab the bolt that he shot
into the wall over Caleb's head.
MATT: Okay. You pocketed a bolt.
MARISHA, TALIESIN, and LIAM: Pocket a bolt.
TRAVIS: So Lasagna, should we try and find our way
over to the--
LAURA: Steelbringer's Forge?
MATT: "Right. Come on, I'll lead you over to where
the boys are. You going to rough them up again?"
LAURA: They're only a couple blocks away?
MATT: "Right. Just right around the corner. Come
on, I'll show you."
LAURA: Should I try casting it again?
SAM: Yes.
TRAVIS: Wait a minute.
TALIESIN: Not yet.
MARISHA: As we walk over there, I say: Hey,
Rissa.
MATT: "Aye."
MARISHA: You got a good dad. He really loves you.
MATT: "I know. He's just... he's difficult at
times. It's hard to scrape under a family name
"when it's been through the ringer."
MARISHA: Sometimes family names aren't all that
they're cracked up to be.
MATT: She gives you a look over. "I agree."
MARISHA: What's more important is that he really
cares for you. Don't take that for granted, all
right? And I slap her on the back and keep
walking.
LAURA: Yeah, and the fact that you know him is
really cool, too. Anyway.
SAM: Wow, so many daddy issues.
MARISHA: I was going to say, me and Jester hold
hands and we skip off.
MATT: You guys are led down past a few buildings
and then around the corner, and while most of the
heavy metalworks is done down below on the ground
floor of the base of the mountain, the more
refined metalworks are done up here on the Shelf.
As you approach, you can already see the
Steelbringer's Forge, which has a number of
shields and swords on display, armor bits, and you
can see simple tools are crafted here. As you
step, already looking into the main chamber door--
which is open, because it's so hot in there, they
have to keep a breeze going through-- there are
two forges going at any given point in time. There
are two anvils set up. You see a few gnomes at
work and indeed, both Fitz and Ashton are both
working as assistants. They're not actually
banging the hammer, but they're both helping move
things and quenching into the water and then
helping gather materials and holding the metal and
rotating it on the anvil as their bosses are
hammering down. They don't seem to notice your
arrival.
LAURA: I use Thaumaturgy to make it sound like
whispers of Infernal all around them.
MATT: (hammering)
ALL: (speaking Infernal)
MATT: "Hold back, boys!" There is one male gnome
and one female dwarf that are both sitting there,
grabbing their nearby warhammers, look around.
They look over and see the shadows in the corner.
"What beast brings their way into our workplace?
Name yourself!"
LAURA: Oh hi!
MATT: They look at each other. The dwarf female
goes (hammering) back to work. You see the two
assistants look over and go-- and put their heads
down and keep focused on their work. The gnome
says, "Just take a break. Hi, can we help you?"
TALIESIN: We're here to talk to those two.
MATT: "What did you do?" He slaps with a cloth,
and the assistant's like, "Ah! I didn't-- gah!"
"What did the boys do? What'd they do?"
LAURA: They might have been party to a crime, we
don't know. We're investigators.
MATT: You can see across the way Ashton's like,
(gasps) and the dwarf goes, "Well then, best go
"talk to them." Gives them a little kick to the
side, and they both take their hammers down. They
take the metal off and put it back in the forge to
heat, and they both rest and cross their arms and
watch. The two boys look at each other and
sheepishly step forward. "Hi, miss. What can we
"do? What are you asking about?" "Yeah, what can we
do?"
MARISHA: We talk in here, or are we going to take
them outside?
MATT: Rissa goes, "I don't know. Kind of like to
do it in a place of business, that way we can keep
"it above the board, you know?"
TRAVIS: Indeed. I'm sure their employers are not
fond of thieves in their midst.
MARISHA: I look back at the boys and I say: Sit
the fuck down.
TRAVIS: Ooh, it's on!
MATT: They both grab nearby stools and sit down.
MARISHA: Here's the deal. This guy's super fucking
charming. He's going to talk to you first. You
don't want to talk to me.
SAM: She's not charming.
LAURA: At all.
TALIESIN: In the least.
MARISHA: Deal?
MATT: "Deal." "Deal."
MARISHA: My man Fjord is up!
LIAM: I wave my hands a little bit and say, "I
suggest you help this one find the things that we
"are looking for," and I cast Suggest.
MATT: What's the DC on that?
LIAM: That is 16, wisdom.
SAM: On one of them or both?
LIAM: One of them.
MATT: Which one, Ashton or Fitz?
LIAM: Fitz.
TRAVIS: Yeah, Fitz did seem like a prick, didn't
he?
TALIESIN: I like that it was not even a question.
MATT: Fitz looks at you and goes-- and looks right
to Fjord, the spell seemingly taking effect.
MARISHA: I crack my knuckles, intimidate them a
bit from behind.
TRAVIS: Fitz, I understand that you might have
felt a little slighted by last night's encounter.
MATT: "Oh, no, you know, I'm just--"
TRAVIS: I didn't say you could talk. What I want
to know is, when you came back into the bar last
night, did you see fit to rummage your way through
some good, hard-working people's coin purses?
MATT: His eyes go wide. "No, not at all, no. What?
I wouldn't. I earn my money."
TRAVIS: How about your friend Ashton over there?
MATT: Ashton looks back. "No, sir, we were just
looking-- we were just joshing, we were just
"playing with Rissa, that was all!"
MARISHA: I pull out my staff. Do a cool little
flourish.
TRAVIS: See, now we're in a dangerous territory,
because once that staff comes out, she's got to
hit something with it, and it's not going to be
me. Listen, Fitz. The best thing you can do here
is wrack your brain real hard, and think: have
you ever seen anyone around that establishment
that might take advantage of some people enjoying
some good imbibements?
MATT: (whimpering)
TRAVIS: Oh, Fitz. Tick tock, tick tock.
MATT: "I don't know! Maybe, um--"
MARISHA: I take a few steps forward.
TRAVIS: Oh no.
MATT: Make an intimidation check.
MARISHA: Oh, Jesus. It's not really my strong
suit.
TRAVIS: I know, it's mine.
MATT: I'll let you both make one, because you're
doing it together.
MARISHA: Oh, that's not too bad. 13?
TRAVIS: 16.
MATT: They both look at each other and like,
(stuttering) "There are probably some people who
"could've taken things. I don't know. There are
shady folk in there all the time! We don't have
"your money! I swear I didn't do anything!"
(sobbing)
TRAVIS: We're making kids cry. This is amazing.
MATT: Ashton's like, "Come on! Get it together!"
and kicks him and is like, "We're being completely
"honest. We saw nothing, we took nothing. We were
just getting our rocks off freaking people out,
"and then we went back and got some drinks."
TRAVIS: You don't know anyone else that has made a
habit of doing this regularly, then?
MATT: "Not personally, no. Most of them end up in
the Gearhold."
SAM: Should I pour this vial of acid on them?
MATT: (screaming)
TRAVIS: You might get it ready, Nott. I feel like
we're not getting anywhere here.
LAURA: You know where Ol' Blemmy is from?
MATT: They both look at each other. "Well,
originally, he used to be an ice sailor up north,
"by Ice Haven, but he retired ten years ago."
SAM: No! Now! Where does he live now?
MATT: "I don't know!"
SAM: By the way, ice sailor sounds like the
coolest job. What does that even mean?
MATT: Ice sailor would be a person that forges the
frozen depths up north.
LAURA: Whoa!
MATT: The people you see on The Deadliest Catch?
It's that kind of a job.
SAM: Mixed with Ice Road Truckers?
MATT: Sure.
TRAVIS: Fitz, I'm going to talk to my colleague
here. If you move, Beau is going to take your head
off. Don't. Move. (whispering) Okay, we got them
right where we want them. Just fucking act like
you don't like what I'm saying. Look agitated.
MARISHA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Look more agitated, right now. More
grimace. Give me nostrils. Nasolabial fold. Really
work it. There it goes. (louder) All right. I
talked to her, Fitz. Listen, she will stay her
staff if, in the next 24 hours, you work your ass
off and you find out who took our money.
MATT: "Okay, okay."
MARISHA: God, my staff is just vibrating--
TRAVIS: Easy, Beau. Remember what you said!
MARISHA: I don't know about this, Fjord!
TRAVIS: This is not going to go well for you
unless you can produce some results.
MATT: He looks to Ashton. Ashton's like, "Okay!
(stuttering) No, we'll ask around! We'll do--
"that's okay! When the bosses-- " "You can look
when you're done with the forge. When the whistles
"blow? Have at it."
LIAM: Fitz, I suggested that you do everything in
your power to help my friend Fjord, and for the
next eight hours, that is what you will do.
MATT: Fitz is like, "I have to work! It's my
livelihood!"
TRAVIS: Well, if you got to work, you got even
less time. Better be motivated.
MARISHA: You know, in this case, I would weigh
between your livelihood and your life. Can't have
one without the other.
LAURA: Oh no. You guys, you guys.
SAM: What? What's wrong?
MATT: Their spirits are pretty crushed right now,
and they're both like--
LAURA: They're going to get fired.
SAM: You feel bad?
LAURA: I do.
LIAM: How much do these young men make in a day
here?
MATT: They both look at each other. "On a good
day? We give them about a gold for a day's work."
LIAM: I want this one, particularly, working now.
Why don't we stake their salary for the day? We
take care of that, double it even. We need these
two. We pay for the loss of their work today?
MATT: They nod. The gnome steps forward, takes the
coin, if you present it.
SAM: We don't have any.
LAURA: Oh god, guys!
MATT: That's four gold, so that's three of them
for the two gold. He goes, "Okay, you boys go get
"your work done here and we'll find some
replacements, and you hope they aren't better than
"you are." The boys are like, "Yes! Yes, sir!"
"Yes, sir!"
MARISHA: I crack my staff on the floor and I say:
Get fucking moving, then!
MATT: They get up and grab their stuff and then
dart out into the street.
TRAVIS: Excellent.
SAM: Should I shoot them down while they run?
TALIESIN: Not yet.
MATT: The two forge workers--
TALIESIN: Now.
MATT: There's a pause, like the two workers at the
forge look at each other and look at you guys and
go (laughs). "I'm not going to lie, those boys are
going to be pissing their pants for a week after
"that. That was enjoyable."
TRAVIS: Yeah, might scare them straight.
MATT: "I hope so. They need it. They're a couple
of pissants. Anyway, we've got to go find some
"replacements, but thank you for helping out with
the transition, at least."
TRAVIS: It's our pleasure.
TALIESIN: We hate to bother you, also, but we did
actually get robbed, and if you have any idea
where we should start looking to actually--
SAM: Everyone. Everywhere.
MATT: They both look at each other and be like,
"Maybe ask down at the Assembly Yard? There's a
"bunch of weird folks that wander down there."
TALIESIN: I like weird folks.
MATT: "Lifelong industrial hammer workers. Not a
lot of craft and skill. Mind gets a bit addled."
TALIESIN: Bless you.
LAURA: Thank you.
MATT: "Of course. Anyway, we've got to go get back
to work."
TRAVIS: We take our leave.
MATT: You guys wander outside?
SAM: On the way out, can I just ask that gentleman:
Do you make any of those things that we've seen
around here?
TALIESIN: Scissors?
LIAM: Octopi?
SAM: (stammering) The pistols. Do you make those
here?
MATT: "Oh, no. We don't specialize in firearms.
Those are all regulated by the Empire. Those are
"designed down in the Assembly Yard."
SAM: Oh. Thank you. Good day.
MATT: Or that would be the Iron Lot is where that
would be made.
SAM: The Iron Lot.
TRAVIS: Yeah, when we were in there, the shields and
swords, they looked fairly standard, or were there
some that were like "holy shit!"?
MATT: No, they seemed pretty standard. I mean,
well-made. Looks like a lot of places like this
are in the process of developing weaponry, not
just for home use, but probably sending it out for
the field.
TRAVIS: Yeah. Rissa, how far are we from this
Assembly Yard?
MATT: She goes, "The Assembly Yard is down in the
bottom half of the city, so it's say about an
"hour, hour and a half walk?"
TRAVIS: And just out of curiosity, the Silver
Falls, the residential area, how far is that?
MATT: "Well, that's that way, about 25 minutes to
get to the actual Falls themselves, and you see
"all the little towers over there, those are where
all the homes are assembled in that place."
TRAVIS: Ol' Blemmy's over in the Silver Falls,
that residential area. Do we want to go there, or--
SAM: Our list of suspects is as follows!
TRAVIS: (softly) Oh, shit.
SAM: The pianist! Blemmy! Rissa! The girl!
LAURA: The little girl that was asking for money.
SAM: Fitz and Ashton! We've eliminated as possible
suspects: Fitz and Ashton, really, they're really
lame. The pianist!
LAURA: Why?
SAM: Because you did Locate Object within his--
LAURA: You're right, that's true, we did do that.
SAM: Rissa! Because she was in Zone of Truth.
TRAVIS: Yep.
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: That leaves our suspects Blemmy! And the
girl.
TRAVIS: But we have no leads on the girl, correct?
No one saw her, knows her name--
MARISHA: Blemmy might know the girl.
LAURA: I saw her. But I did not ask her name.
SAM: But! She has your copper pieces!
LAURA: I gave her silver!
TRAVIS: You did.
SAM: You did! Could you find those specific
silver pieces? Or the money she stole from us.
TRAVIS: Do you bite your silver pieces before you
put them in your coin purse?
MARISHA: Did you lick it?
LAURA: I don't. But I do draw dicks on a lot of my
money. But I don't think I did it to those.
TRAVIS: Like, little tiny dicks?
LAURA: Well, I have really good paint, you know.
SAM: So we go find Blemmy!
TRAVIS: Silver Falls.
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: Silver Falls. That's the residential area.
Where the finger towers apartments are.
TALIESIN: We can keep asking, has anyone had
anything purchased--
LAURA: That was a lot of money!
TALIESIN: With dicks on it.
LAURA: That, too. No, wait, because they didn't
steal my money.
TRAVIS: If there was a way to ask about--
LAURA: I have a whole pouch full of money, you
guys, right here.
TRAVIS: If you could ask about large purchases,
that would be a good idea.
LAURA: Big pouch.
TRAVIS: Silver Falls?
SAM: Silver Falls!
SAM, MATT, and LAURA: (singing to tune of Silver
Bells) Silver Falls...
MATT: With Rissa guiding you guys back, you manage
to make your way outside of the main Idle Shelf
area and in towards the cluster of the Silver
Falls. As you approach, you can see the beautiful,
very wide waterfall that cascades down about a
thousand feet, across the mountainside, until
eventually it falls into this large lake, where
you can see columns of steam are rising up. The
closer you get, you begin to realize that there is an
element of this lake, this waterfall, and some
sort of a steam engine-type mechanism built into
the surrounding rock that they use to fuel
probably the furnaces and elements of the
technology within this city. As you begin to hit
the residential area, you can see these large,
somewhat crooked-looking towers that themselves
are maybe what would be the equivalent of 1500- to
1000-square-foot apartments, but stacked four or
five on top of each other, with spiraling stairs
on the outside to go to each level. There aren't a
lot of folks currently at home, other than
stay-at-home dads or moms that are watching
children, some folks that are putting out laundry
on lines that are connecting between multiple
towers and are dangling up two or three stories
above the street. But they're all made of dark
irons and blacker metals, so it gives the district
this very weirdly-- what's the word I'm looking
for? A whimsical Industrial Revolution feel. It's
a unique mixture.
LAURA: Dr. Seuss meets--
MATT: Kind of. Or a hint of Howl's Moving Castle
in places. There's also that spray of the
waterfall hitting the lake behind, which gives
occasionally this light misting of water through
the air. You can see faint bits of rainbow that
come through where the mist hits the sunlight as
it makes its way across the waterfall spray.
LAURA: You said the waterfall goes up a thousand
feet.
MATT: Mm-hmm.
LAURA: And the apartments don't go as high as
that.
MATT: No, not at all.
LAURA: So if I got in the middle of the area and
cast Locate Object, it would do a really big
radius. It would reach at least the top of the
buildings.
MATT: Oh yeah, very much so.
SAM: Let's go.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: Okay. As you make your way through, you're
not entirely sure where Ol' Blemmy is, but you
make your way towards where the middle, Rissa
says, of the district is--
TRAVIS: Keeping an eye out for old, craggly
sailor-types.
MATT: Sure. Make a perception check.
TRAVIS: Me? Yep.
LAURA: Should I cast Locate Object while we're
walking around?
LIAM: In a center spot?
SAM: Will you be able to cast it again?
TRAVIS: Eight.
LAURA: Yeah. I mean, if I use up all my spells
today as like, this kind of thing.
SAM: Why did you--
MATT: It's a 2nd-level spell. Do you want to cast
it again or not?
LAURA: I can.
SAM: Just while we stroll through the town?
MARISHA: Through the residential district.
SAM: Sure. I guess. What are you searching for?
LAURA: The drinking coins, right?
LIAM: Yeah, the tokens.
MATT: The tokens?
MARISHA: I think it's the best way to go.
LAURA: Cast spell.
MATT: Okay, you cast Locate Object. You
concentrate and focus, extending your
consciousness, focusing on one of these wooden
tokens, the one that was won by one of the members
of your party. (pop) You get a blip behind you.
Not quite in the district, but right where the
Idleworks Shelf transitions into the residential
area on the Idleworks Shelf. You get (boop).
LAURA: (gasps) Ah! I turn around and start running
towards it.
SAM: Follow her! She's a bloodhound!
TRAVIS: Throwing up while we do it.
MATT: You guys dart after Jester, making your way
down the road, running, (panting). You're closing
the distance. You weave through a couple
buildings. You're out of the residential part of
the district again and you're back into the Idle
Shelf, but on the very back end of it. There's
warehouses and there's small buildings, and
eventually, you come to the destination and it
looks like it's a small building. There's a sign
out front that just says, "Butcher." And it's
boarded up.
TRAVIS: Yep. That motherfucker had leather apron
with shitty-ass sleeves.
MARISHA: He totally fucking did.
SAM: Was it Blemmy?
MARISHA: No, it was the guy with the nasty fucking
beard.
SAM: They all had nasty beards. Duncan, Valkin,
Ruth, and Tanya.
LAURA: It was Duncan!
MARISHA: Duncan! That was his name! Right, the guy
that you drank across?
LIAM: We should probably keep our voices down in
the street--
TRAVIS: Let's turn it down.
MARISHA: Wait, was Duncan the nerdy guy?
SAM: The first guy was Duncan. Valkin was the next
guy.
LAURA: Valkin was the guy that fought Caleb. Okay,
let's go. Should we just go in?
TRAVIS: No. Who's going to guard the back?
SAM: Oh, we're going to circle around?
TRAVIS: Fuck yeah! If she's getting a beacon.
MATT: You see Kiri pulls out her knife and goes,
(like Jester) "I can send a message."
TRAVIS: Oh no. No, Kiri, this is where we're
stealthy, all right? Knife goes away. Shh. Nice.
MATT: (like Fjord) "Shh. Nice"
LIAM: Do we want to send Nott or a cat in?
MARISHA: Is there a roof to this thing?
MATT: There is a roof, yeah.
TRAVIS: Two story? One story?
MATT: It's one story. It's not a huge building.
It's maybe three rooms?
MARISHA: I parkour on the roof.
MATT: Make an acrobatics check.
SAM: No, wait. Can we surround it first? Jesus.
MATT: She's already up.
TRAVIS: She hops up there, I run around the back.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: We surround the building.
LAURA: I'm going to stay in the front.
MARISHA: Ooh! 25.
MATT: All right. You guys surround it. (landing
footfalls)
MARISHA: Are there any chimneys? Soft spots in the
floor? Skylights?
MATT: There isn't a skylight, per se, but you do
see there is a little smokestack that's about
three feet wide or so. Two and a half feet wide.
MARISHA: I'm going to peek in. Can I see down?
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: (fake coughs) Okay. 14.
MATT: 14. Glancing inside, it's dark, except for
you can see the little beams of sunlight that are
coming through the slats of wood on the roof.
MARISHA: Goggles.
MATT: Glancing inside, looking through, you can
see four figures in there that are currently not
moving and they're all clustered together in the
far corner.
MARISHA: What do they look like?
MATT: They look gnome in size.
MARISHA: Okay. They're just huddled together, you
said?
MATT: They're huddled together, and they're not
moving.
SAM: I will take out my wire and--
MATT: You look and they're starting to look
around, like they might have heard a noise.
SAM: I whisper to Beau using Message, "What do you
see? You can reply to this message."
MARISHA: (whispers) Four individuals. Huddled
around. They're either the assholes or hostages,
it's hard to say.
LAURA: (whispers) Should we all go in at the same
time? Oh you can't hear me; we're not Messaging
together.
SAM: No.
LAURA: (whispers) I'm just talking to myself.
MARISHA: Hey, I'm going to--
SAM: We don't know what you're doing.
TRAVIS: Is there a door or a window on the back at
all, or is it just like--?
MATT: No, there's a door in the front, and a door
at the back. The door in the front is like a
sectional door, a top and a bottom, looks like it
can be opened separately to sell out or wants to
bring and sell meat over that side. The back is
just a general door; it looks almost like a
storage space or a back entry to it.
TRAVIS: Outstanding.
LIAM: No open windows?
SAM: Should we draw them out?
MATT: There are windows, but they're boarded
over.
SAM: We're just going to bust in? What if they
have traps and bombs?
MARISHA: I'm going to very gingerly lean over the
edge of the roof where Fjord is. I'm going to say:
(whispers) On the boom!
TRAVIS: (whispers) Okay.
MARISHA: I'm going to go back over to the chimney
very gingerly, pull out one of the firecrackers,
one of the bottle rockets, light it with the
tinderbox, and drop it in.
TRAVIS: Awesome!
MARISHA: Is the chimney wide enough for me to fit
in? Santa Claus-style?
MATT: You can try, yeah. You can certainly try.
LIAM: There was a back door, too?
TRAVIS: Front door, back door.
LAURA: He's at the back door.
MARISHA: You guys are at the front.
MATT: (loud popping) It goes off. On the inside is
a flash of light. You hear screams.
LAURA: We're going in!
MATT: You guys all burst inside. As you break
through the doors, wood splinters on the inside,
light breaks in, and in the corner you can see
what looks to be four gnomish children.
MARISHA: Fuck!
MATT: Two of them teenage, two of them younger,
all scared out of their minds. The teenagers are
trying to protect the two younger ones. You can
see a pile of gold around them on the ground.
They're just like (panting).
LAURA: You took the money! It was the little
girl!
TRAVIS: Easy. Easy. Easy. We're not going to hurt
you.
SAM: I will kill them all!
TRAVIS: No, Nott! It's fine. You're not in any
danger.
MATT: There is a gnome girl, the equivalent of
like 17 or so with very brown, curled hair, it's
this uncontrolled mass, dirty on the cheek. A
younger boy with short red hair is the other
protector of the two. Their clothes are pretty
dirty. Then there's the younger girl that you saw
wandering through the tavern, who's on the ground
clutching a stuffed bear.
LAURA: Didn't I say it right away? I said it right
away!
MATT: You see a boy that's a little older than
her, about nine you would say, equivalent, with
very long, brown hair that's around the shoulders,
and they all just look scared.
TRAVIS: Nott Detective Agency always gets their
man! It's all right.
LAURA: Hey. I know you, I saw you. Right? I gave
you some money?
MARISHA: (coughs)
MATT: She's not talking.
LAURA: You. Stole. From. Our. Friends. Not. Cool.
SAM: You went down a chimney.
LIAM: It's not in character.
MARISHA: (coughing) Sorry, wrong pipe. Keep
going.
LAURA: I totally thought you were just doing the
"went down the chimney."
MARISHA: (coughing) As I cough my way down the
chimney, "I'm coming!"
MATT: You look up as she comes out the bottom in a
big old plume of soot. Just covered.
MARISHA: I'm a little late and I look at the girl
and I say: It was you!
TRAVIS: No, Beau, we're already winning.
MARISHA: Sorry.
MATT: The older girl, "Look, we don't mean
nothing, we're just trying to get by, okay? We
"didn't realize how much you had on you, and to be
honest, it was both exciting and scary. Just don't
"hurt anyone, please."
LAURA: We're not going to hurt you. Just give it
all back.
MATT: "Take it."
LIAM: No parents at all?
MATT: The girl looks sad for a moment, saying,
"Not for a little while."
LIAM: How much have you hoarded up here? Just us,
or more?
MATT: "We've scrambled coins here and there over
time, keep on by. Most everyone here only keeps a
"few coins in their pockets. Hence our surprise
when this came about." The younger boy goes like,
"Yeah, we don't expect this kind of a payload."
TRAVIS: How old are you?
MATT: The older girl goes, "I'm Gail. I'm 17."
LAURA: Gail!
MATT: The older boy goes, "I'm Austin." The little
boy with longer curly hair goes, "I'm Jude." The
older girl points to the little girl and goes,
"That's Layla."
TRAVIS: You said you haven't had your parents
around for a while now? What happened to them?
MATT: They all look at each other, and the older
boy sits forward and goes, "Well, they got
"arrested."
TRAVIS: Doing what?
MATT: "Got arrested for idol worship. False
worship."
TRAVIS: Here? In Hupperdook?
SAM: What god were they worshiping?
LAURA: Was it the Traveler?
MATT: "No. Changebringer."
TRAVIS: The Changebringer?
MATT: "Avandra. It's been in the family for a long
time. Every six months, the tithe collectors come
"through, and they noticed they'd forgotten to put
away their idol worship. They locked them up.
"They've been in the Gearhold ever since."
TRAVIS: Tithe collectors?
MATT: You know about those. Those of you who've
been in the Empire, part of living in the Empire
is about every six months or so, there's a tax
man, a tithe collector that goes through, usually
with a couple crownsguard. You recognize them by
black cloak with gold trim, usually dark clothing.
They go building to building, business to
business, inspect ledgers, ask about their
business, look at the means in which they're
living, and then make an estimation of what they
owe. They then collect the money and move on their
way. But you know this from your studies, this is
also used as a means of inspecting for any illegal
activity and anything that goes against the Crown.
Often a lot of people get arrested for that.
TRAVIS: You all brothers and sisters?
MATT: "We are."
TRAVIS: And your parents' names?
MATT: "Gilda and Wallace Schuster. We're
Schusters."
TALIESIN: How long have you been pickpocketing,
then?
MATT: "Only about three months."
TALIESIN: Mostly success at this point?
MATT: "So far, so good. Most people don't seem to
pay much attention to the younger kids."
TALIESIN: Well, this is good. This is a very
valuable lesson. If you ever come across a purse
like this again, you just take a tiny bit of it,
and then leave the rest.
MATT: "We just grab it and run, we didn't know how
much was here until we got back."
TALIESIN: Well then, you just bring it back
immediately. Obviously you take five percent.
MATT: "Right, no, I understand." Gail says, "We
understand, sir! We've learned our lesson!"
MARISHA: Look, because you were so good at your
job, keep this. I hand him 20 gold. Look, I
appreciate good work when I see it, all right? You
got our shit. That was pretty damn good.
MATT: "Thank you."
TRAVIS: Gail, you been taking care of your younger
siblings this whole time?
MATT: "I've been trying, best we can. Our parents
worked as butchers, so we had some food to keep us
"going for a while, but when stuff got thin and
begging wasn't working out, we, you know, did what
"was necessary. And I'll do what it takes to make
sure my siblings stay healthy."
TRAVIS: You been holed up here, or you on the
move?
MATT: "We've held up here. This is where we grew
up."
TRAVIS: How long before the tithe man comes back?
MATT: "Anytime now, really. It's been six months.
But we ain't much of a business at this time."
MARISHA: Is there anywhere they take kids? Kids
separated from their parents? Or do they just not care?
MATT: "I hear stories, they round them up and
throw them to Rexxentrum in orphanages, and we
"don't want to go there."
MARISHA: So you're just avoiding them.
TRAVIS: Gilda and Wallace. Let me ask you, if we
were to somehow get your parents out of the
Gearhold prison, would you stay here?
MATT: (nervous chuckle) "How would you intend on
getting my parents out of the prison?"
TRAVIS: I'm the one asking questions here.
MATT: "I mean, legally? We'd probably stay here
and reopen the shop."
TRAVIS: You don't seem to be taking my meaning. If
we were to reunite you with your folks, would you
get out of town right quick?
MATT: "If it were by means where people would come
looking for us, we would definitely be heading
"somewhere other than here."
TRAVIS: Give us a moment, will you?
MATT: "All right."
TALIESIN: How soft are you getting?
SAM: It's very clear. We have Kiri already. We
take these four children with us, and we keep going.
MARISHA: And we start a children's band.
TRAVIS: The Partridge Family.
MARISHA: Yes, exactly!
LAURA: We can teach them the dances that we have
been learning, and working on!
TALIESIN: If I've learned anything, you don't work
with animals or children, and we're rapidly
getting both!
MATT: Hey man, attach them all by chains to your
armor, and you guys are the new Dread Emperor!
LIAM: Throwback!
TRAVIS: Keyleth! No, but seriously. Listen,
they've obviously done a fair job of
taking care of themselves. We could toss them some
coin and wish them well.
TALIESIN: I see no problem with that.
TRAVIS: Or, if we're serious about returning Cleff
with his (tongue click), might as well see if we
can get a little extra friend or two out.
TALIESIN: Let's make no promises, but again--
TRAVIS: No promises, but man, if we have an
opportunity to reunite these kids with their
parents, that's a pretty special deed, don't you
think?
TALIESIN: You are so soft!
LAURA: Can I ask a shitty question?
TALIESIN: Oh, please!
LAURA: If we take the time right now to break
their parents out and get that automaton, are we
going to lose time on the thing for The Gentleman?
LIAM: Yes, we are.
TRAVIS: Man, I entirely forgot.
SAM: But we still have weeks left, don't we?
MARISHA: But it's still another three or four
days.
SAM: You have a means of contacting The Gentleman.
You could ask for a three-day extension.
TALIESIN: I tend to find these sorts of jobs,
asking for a three-day extension does not go well.
You're given the time, you do the job, you finish
it, you don't ask questions, you don't ask for special--
LIAM: Haven't you been working for the circus for
two years?
TALIESIN: That's what I'm talking about. When
you're in a circus, sometimes you get paid to do
gigs. Things have happened. I've run a couple
things in my time.
LAURA: Insight check.
MATT: Insight check?
TRAVIS: I think it's, "Do I believe him?" right?
MATT: Yes. Do I believe him?
MARISHA: But insight check has become such a
thing!
TALIESIN: I'm into it.
MATT: Frustratingly so, yes!
TRAVIS and MARISHA: But the DM hates it!
MATT: I find it amusing.
LAURA: Sorry. Do I think he's lying?
TALIESIN: We're a circus! Of course we've robbed
people! My god, we have robbed, swindled, we've
been robbed, we've gone back and found the people
who've robbed them, sometimes we don't! Oh my god, yes.
LIAM: Does that mean that your cards are bullshit?
MARISHA: Of course they're bullshit, they're
fucking cards.
LAURA: No they're not, they're super true!
LIAM: I am asking Mollymauk.
TALIESIN: You're asking if my cards are bullshit?
My cards are not bullshit.
LIAM: I want to say "insight check" so bad, but I
won't say it!
TALIESIN: I know you do! But you won't say it.
SAM: Caleb, you have a photographic memory, as you
remind us every session. How long do we have until
our time is up with The Gentleman?
LIAM: DM will fill that information in.
MATT: Let's see, we had about three days traveling
there. Since you left, you have about two and a
half weeks, I'll say, estimated at the moment.
SAM: How long would it take, do we think, to get up
north there, if we went straight? A week?
MARISHA: From Hupperdook?
MATT: I would say, off the top of my head, a
little under a week.
SAM: So we've got a couple weeks! We have a day
or two to spend on some prison breaking.
TALIESIN: We've got a day or two to spend on this,
but not a week.
MARISHA: Hang on. This thing has been a problem
for years, the clockwork warden? Why don't we just
go, finish our stuff, we have to cross back
through here, anyway.
LAURA: And come back?
MARISHA: And come back and finish the job.
LIAM: We already have a job.
SAM: Beauregard, don't you think they should be
reunited with their father who loves them very
much, and wants to be with them?
MARISHA: Of course I do. They've been scrappy for
long enough. They can be scrappy for another week
or two.
LAURA: They don't even have to be that scrappy
now.
TRAVIS: They said the tithe man could return any
day.
SAM: And take them to an orphanage.
TRAVIS: What if we come back and they're gone?
SAM: It would be horrible if they were taken away
from their home and given to some people who would
do horrible things to them, or mistreat them for
their whole childhoods, leaving them as cold,
heartless, resting bitches.
TALIESIN: Didn't you almost open fire on these
children not more than 30 seconds ago?
SAM: That was an intimidation tactic. I would
never hurt a child!
TALIESIN: Of course you would!
SAM: No, I wouldn't! I love children.
TRAVIS: You'd eat a child.
SAM: That was an accident!
TRAVIS: I knew I saw you drooling!
TALIESIN: This is why I don't miss the circus.
LAURA: Okay. What are we doing?
LIAM: It depends on how altruistic this group is.
We already have a job. I mean, I will defer to the
group, but we have a job and we are on a time
table.
TRAVIS: I would really like the opportunity to
leave this place better than we found it,
especially for these kids.
TALIESIN: I'm not saying no, I'm just saying
remember that we are hired hands.
TRAVIS: I understand. If it goes sideways, it goes
sideways, and we run. But if we can keep them out
of an orphanage, I would be most grateful to all
of you.
TALIESIN: I've done dumber shit.
LAURA: All right.
MARISHA: I mean, Nott's over here trying to pull
my heart strings, but it seems like you should be
the target. You have a thing with kids and
orphanages?
SAM: Were you an orphan?
MARISHA: Separated from dad?
TALIESIN: Have you ever eaten an orphan?
LIAM: Ja, so much for sticking to the plan.
SAM: Were you an orphan?
TRAVIS: Yes. I was. They're terrible fucking
places.
SAM: Sorry.
TALIESIN: Say no more. I'm in.
MARISHA: You know, I'm interested if there's a
master lever to this prison. Just prison break,
see what happens.
TALIESIN: That sounds like a terrible idea.
LAURA: Maybe we can negotiate our way into the
prison and say we'll take care of the automaton,
and while we're in there, we can sneak around and
set the parents free.
MARISHA: All right, if we do this, I think we need
to give ourselves a hard time limit that we all
stick to, because the last thing that I want is
for the fucking Gentlemen with his vials of our
DNA coming after our asses.
TRAVIS: Agreed.
LAURA: As long as we give him some notice, I think
it will be okay.
MARISHA: I have a feeling The Gentleman isn't a
guy that negotiates on time periods.
TRAVIS: The effort is all I ask for. We're a
clever group. Surely we can survey, come up with a
plan, try something. If we fail, we fail, and
we'll move on with our objective. I can't leave
here without trying.
LIAM: I would like it to be predicated on us
coming up with at least a respectable plan, not
willy-nilly, fly in with our balls out.
TALIESIN: I'm also in it for a crossbow.
MARISHA: I guess it doesn't hurt to ask The
Gentleman, if worst comes to worst.
TALIESIN: Just remember, you either get the
nickname "The Gentleman" because you are one, or
because you're really not.
LAURA: Ooh, good point.
TRAVIS: How about we bring the kids back in, we
give them a little coin so they stay out of
trouble, for the next--
MARISHA: They have 30 gold on them.
LAURA: They got a lot of gold on them.
LIAM: That's a lot of money.
TRAVIS: We tell them to stay put, unless they're
getting food.
TALIESIN: I'm gonna give them-- nope, never mind.
I'm not going to give them that, because that
would be a terrible idea.
MARISHA: Caleb, how long does your string theory
work?
LIAM: String theory?
SAM: Eight hours, right?
LIAM: Eight hours, yeah.
MARISHA: What time is it?
MATT: At this point, it's probably pushing one or
two in the afternoon.
LIAM: Do we have any food we can leave for them,
so they don't have to--?
SAM: I have some human jerky left over.
LAURA: I did pocket some of the breakfast from
this morning.
MATT: You did, yeah. Do you give that to them?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: The kids hungrily accept, and devour, evenly
dividing amongst them. They feed the younger kids
first and then whatever is left over, the older
ones take. They say, "Thank you, I really
"appreciate that."
TALIESIN: I've got a good idea. I'm going to give
the older one one of my rings. I've got these
strange little rings that I left over. Keep that
on you, sell it if you have to, but see if you can
hold off for a while. If things go wrong, get
within 1,000 feet of the Blushing Tavern, hide and
wait, and we'll find you.
MATT: "All right."
TALIESIN: Hide.
MATT: "We'll keep that in mind, thank you. Thank
you kindly." Is it a ring finger, a finger ring?
TALIESIN: It's a finger ring.
LAURA and MARISHA: It's a fingering?
TALIESIN: It was one of the rings that we found in
the cave.
MATT: He puts it over his thumb. For his body and
size, it goes over his thumb. It's still a little
loose, but it'll stay. "Thank you. I don't know
how we'll repay you, but--"
LAURA: Question: what are we going to do with Kiri
right now, if we're going down into the jail?
LIAM: I think she has a sleepover--
TRAVIS: With the girl we found, right?
MARISHA: And Yasha?
LAURA: Or with these fabulous kids right now? No,
Yasha needs to come with us. We need her help.
MARISHA: Oh, that's true.
MATT: Yeah, Yasha's like, "No, if we're going into
a prison to kill something, I want to be there."
MARISHA: That's true. Sorry. Forgot what time it
was!
SAM: Well, we know how much the prostitutes cost
to watch Kiri.
TALIESIN: She said it.
TRAVIS: Or we could drop Kiri off with the little
girl that--
LAURA: Or Kiri can stay here with these wonderful
children.
LIAM: They are very capable children.
MATT: Kiri goes, (like Nott) "That sounds
adorable!"
LAURA: (gasps) Do you want to stay with them?!
MATT: (like Jester) "Okay!"
LAURA: Oh my gosh.
SAM: The children do owe us a little bit.
LAURA: Children, oh, Schusters.
SAM: Oh Schusters!
LAURA: Do you guys want to watch our little friend
here as well?
MATT: (chirping) The little girl walks up and
touches the feathers, and you see the feathers of
Kiri's head (rustling) and her eyes close for a
second as she's scratching the side of her head.
LAURA: She's like you, though, so she's not like a
pet or anything. She's a real little girl, okay?
MARISHA: Hey Kiri, show them your music box.
MATT: (cranking) (music box chiming) It starts
playing, and the little girl leans in and they all
close in quickly. For a moment, you can see this
little unit of kids meeting a new friend, and a
friend meeting new kids. You're like, okay, they
might be okay for a little bit.
TRAVIS: You take care of each other. You're a
little temporary family for now.
MARISHA: He's going to make some protection.
LIAM: Kinder, this is a thread I am going to put
around the chamber that you are living in, and I
will know if our little feathered friend or you
all leave. You're perfectly welcome to. I'm just
letting you know that I will know, ja? Okay.
MATT: They all nod to you. Kiri looks to Fjord and
(dagger unsheathing).
LAURA: (whispers) Don't stab any of the other
kids, okay?
MATT: (whispers) (like Jester) "Okay."
TRAVIS: Remember, stay quiet.
MATT: (like Fjord) "Stay quiet."
TALIESIN: Oh! So weird!
MATT: Leaving the kids there, you all quietly exit
the building, reaffirming the doors you had kicked in.
SAM: Oh yeah! Going to lean those up against the
door jamb.
LAURA: Oh! I cast Mending on the doors!
MATT: There you go! You manage to get the doors
back into a sizeable place and begin to discuss how
you're going to tackle this next endeavor. And
that's where we'll finish this week's episode.
We'll pick up next week.
MARISHA: Such a good game!
MATT: Well done, guys!
MARISHA: That was funsies.
MATT: We'll see if--
LAURA: Hey, we got the money back!
MARISHA: We got the money back!
MATT: See if you can earn your Tinkertop
Boltblaster 1000.
MARISHA: Oh my god!
TRAVIS: Could have just gone back and bought it,
but no, we want to go the expert level!
MARISHA: Yo, you can buy it or you can collect all
48 pinecones and then you just unlock it. It's
like that.
MATT: Hey man! Good game, guys! Awesome!
LAURA: We should definitely rest before the next
part because I just used up all my 2nd-level spells.
SAM: We'll do recon for the afternoon and then
we'll attack tomorrow morning.
LAURA: Okay.
MARISHA: Yeah, plan.
SAM: Unless this guy comes in the next week!
LAURA: Hey!
SAM: If that happens!
MATT: Oh my goodness.
MARISHA: (bass guitar melody)
MATT: My God! And on that note! Have a wonderful
week, guys. We'll see you next Thursday for the
next stage of this crazy adventure. Remember, we
love you, and is it Thursday yet? Good night.
[music]